---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 11)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qq-3hIumVWw
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 11)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, brothers and sisters, we still are here on the Play Rose podcast. It's your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. We're presently looking at positive God's purpose. We have gotten to our study on our spiritual assignment. Recall that I've established God's purpose is sunship, which means we are children of God and hears of God. We have seen that as children of God, we fellowship with him and we walk in his nature and character. We have seen that as the ears of God we have a natural assignment and a spiritual assignment. You recall that we have seen our natural assignment already as well. So for our natural assignment we have seen that we are to start from where we are. We are to take opportunities as they come to us. We are to pursue desires that we have in this world. We are to be open to the leading of the spirit. And lastly we are to be maximally productive. That's core. But then our focus has been on our spiritual assignment. we said is the most neglectable and neglected part of God's purpose. Unfortunately, in fact, we could say that our natural assignment as well is neglected because we don't have many people treat their natural assignments as given to them by God. People pursue it other ways, ways that they see themselves as their own god. They do it as their own things. There's a concern on both sides. But there's no question that if there's neglect on any side, if there's greater neglect on any side is definitely on the side of our spiritual assignment. And it's not rude to quickly paint a negative picture of people who are not as committed to their spiritual assignments because there are many reasons why that can be the case. And if that's the case, the point is we need to talk about it from God's word. That's the only way we can shine the light on the hearts on your heart. So that's the only way we can help you to see why, how to do what you're supposed to do. So I'm not taking negative position that shows that you are a terrible person etc. I'm taking a disposition that you need to listen to what God has to say about it. You'll find people that they are reason for running away from their spiritual assignment is they think it's unrealistic to commit to in the light of the demands of their life. They really believe that they love the Lord and they faithful to him and they can walk with him without that extra commitment that as they do what they do in the natural they can simply give pray as supporting the work. That option only exist for the select few who by virtue of their natural assignments are necessarily unavailable to partake of it. I said it's a select few. I mean they are certain people by virtue of their work. They are send duties security folks. Now today with the advent of so many things in our world, people that serve roles in movement and transportation, you'll sometimes find some of them by shadow from their workplaces needed to commit maybe even at times that they could be available for their spiritual assignments and they have to work out arrangement for them to still be involved. So for these ones, they don't have like some very strong exclusion. But there are times where people involved in security have a greater level of exclusion for a period of time. But if your heart is neat and understanding of the work, you would know what to do, when to do etc. And that's something we hope to establish as we talk about that spiritual assignment in this episode. You'll recall that for spiritual assignment, we have established very well in God's word that there is such a lot that we have of ministry. Acts one said that we saw that that word lot is used together with the word part and the word part is used to describe our place in the body of Christ and in ministry. 1 Corinthians 12:27, Romans 12, Ephesians 4:7 all the way down to verse 16. So you have a lot and a part in the work of ministry that the Lord has given onto you. What are you doing about that? What does it even mean? How do you start to do it? One of the clear things we have said is it is expected that your spiritual assignment is born out of the disciplehip of the church. In fact, treating your natural work as God's assignment to you is also born out of the leadership of the church. Otherwise, you have what the Bible calls covetousness, which it says is idolatry, right? And Ephesians 5 and 5. A covetous man is an idolattor. closians would also use that cause covetousness idolatry which is just being about self. If you treat what you do from just from the standpoint of self then that's just idolatry. This is not saying you shouldn't enjoy things in the world. That is not a biblical position at all. One of the texts I've not really gone through about is 1 Timothy 6. I know I mentioned it one of the episodes where we read downwards when he was talking about our natural assignment. He spoke about charging those who are rich in this world not to be high-minded. It says they should give and commit their resources to the work of the Lord. Let me read that text. And he points out that even the things that are owned are given by God freely for our use. 1 Timothy 6 and in verse 18 17 and 18 it says command those who are rich in this present age not to be oughty or to trust in us riches which again is the idea of covetousness but in the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy. There is no point restricting what all things there is because all things come from God and we know the only exception is the contradiction in the world. If someone owns things is given by God. So whether we speak about God-given spirit or speak about God giving natural things is given by God is not against the use of things in this world. It's not against pleasure is against ungodly pleasure but is for godly pleasure. Yeah. So the Bible doesn't speak about using you should what are you talking about? You should the Bible teaches allocation of our resources across needs then wants then God's mission on the earth. You had to by his wisdom allocate your resources what goes to the mission and yet allocate the things that cover for your needs. But then you would have the space for once that are yours to enjoy rightfully so as your opportun to and shouldn't be anybody's business your right but then we must by the disciplehip of the church treat both what we do in the natural and spiritual as God's work to us. So first thing we've said about our spiritual assignment is that it's born out of disciplehip of the church. And on that note, I said, "No matter your situation, once you're saved, you need to be able to find a local church you are aligned with and from there begin to grow." We live in an interesting time today where unlike as it was, it's something we must accept about the reality of church post the age of the apostles. So in the age of the apostles, we have this higher tendency for uniformity. They are the ones responsible for the doctrine. easy to point to them and their word almost directly because they are present. This uniformity we find to some degree but not exactly as it was in their time. Of course they had disagreements among themselves but you know that they are the ones that are the authority so you could easily resolve it with their presence and their consensus. Once we leave that period we start to find certain tendencies come up of denominationalism. those who try to argue against it in different ways. I don't want to get into that. It's another examination today. One time we're going to take a look at the issue of church are kind of living in denial. So from that time we'll find that different idiosyncrasies could arise about people. We must know what is foundational and what must not what must be present for it to be a church otherwise it is not a church. We must also know what is secondary but also very important that can be a deal breaker if you may say. So financial things are things that make for salvation as well. The there will be some important things anybody that is exploitative. So Peter Jude would already speak against people like that. And it cost across financial exploitation, sexual exploitation, even just general life and time exploitation. You've got to be weary of people that are time exploitative. They these kind of things will affect your work with God. There's that second part of judgment. But once you can find a reasonable level of agreement for your growth and your work, you should commit. you are better self- committing than not. Now, exploitation will bring harm. So, it could be costly, right? And in those cases, you have the wisdom of God's word to know you are right to avoid doctrinal error. That's extremely costly. You have God's word to know you are right to avoid that. But other than those two, when you find that there's a place that you aligned with, you may not be sure of every truth in God's word and all of that. But that's good. You're growing. If for some reason by God orchestration, you know better. Of course, the wisdom of God's word is to be faithful with what you know to grow. I don't want to get text on that, but yeah, you can do the right thing the right way about those type of situations. But you are not better served not being in local church. It helps you to have that um environment that stirs you to continually have a heart of worship towards God, continually regard his call upon your life, to continually treat your work and assignments the way you are meant to. It's so easy to deviate and start to act in an idolatrous manner despite the fact that we people of God with his spirit in us. You need the local church. I I can't I'm not I'm not saying you need my local because you might not even have one where you are but you need yet. But you need the local church and it's not something to toy with. That said, what does the local church do for you? As it disciples you, he tells you to go. Exactly what the Lord Jesus said. So from the point you are in the local church, you are told to go. Now let's look at the example of Paul. We're talking about that. That's the first step. You can go with what you have. Once you're plugged into the local church, why that's important is as you go with what you have, as you're plugged into the local church, when you have questions on certain things, you can ask the leadership. They are better equipped to help you. They should have more light than you. They're able to guide you. Acts chapter 9, right after Paul's encounter salvation. Acts chapter 9 and let me read from verse 19. So when he had received food, he was strengthened. Then Paul then s spent some days with the disciples at Damascus. Immediately he preached. Look at that. I hope you noticed the other. When he received food, he was strengthened. Right after the encounter, he had to fast three days. Then Ananas ministered to him. Then Saul spent some days with the disciples at Damascus. Do you see that? He was plugged in with the disciples. That's the first thing. He was with the disciples. That's the very first thing. The next sentence says immediately he preached like he's side by side. Do you understand? I I so you the idea that you start out ministry being just in one room praying and saying Lord what do you call me for? Is it something great like this or that I want to have an encounter is a wrong idea. Like we said about leading when we're talking about natural assignment in spiritual assignment you don't go hunting for that. It's a place that is going to come into play when we get there. But you already have the wisdom of God's word the leaning of God's word on what to do. You start with that. You start with disciplehip. You get plugged into a local church. You start with disciplehip. Then at the same time, immediately he says he preached Christ in his goal. That's just what believers do. We do both at the same time. We are learning and we are going as I works. So at this time of course he's not going to have so much authority. He's not going to be functioning as a leader. I mean he just got saved but he's already involved in the work and he's doing so zealous. is just serving as a member of the church faithfully of course I mean he was quite zealous and so there will be an increase to his work that could almost accelerate his journey to leadership which is something we'll see should happen to every believer because Ephesians 4 and talking about our part is saying that the norm is leadership the design of God is to end up in leadership but there's a process to that which is what we look at in the pursuit of God's purpose as pertaining to our spiritual assignment I do hope in the next episode we wrap this up. But I think you've seen the point. The first one is commit to disciplehip. That's how you start your spiritual assignment. And then simultaneously go from where you are. Paul went from Damascus where he was immediately from where you are, you start to go. That is whatever you can do. Now we have to open up that word go. What are the things I do there when I go? And you will see it in our how to handle that in our age and our time today. What the implications of the words that Jesus used mean for today's time. Brothers and sisters, we'll continue from where we stopped in the next episode. Thank you. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's [music] episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit clarose.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst [music] on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
