---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "Faith Stand (Part 1)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t7sP_X1y3rA
---

# Faith Stand (Part 1)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Blur Rose podcast. We are here to give you your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And as we can see from what the intent of the podcast is about. We are primarily focused on what God's focus himself is which is his purpose. Right? It's about where we started from. We started looking at the place of the gospel in our lives which is the fact that the gospel is the truth. And then we saw the gospel reveals what God's purpose is which we studied and found is sunship if you recall and we explored and understood what sunship is. We saw particularly from Paul's explanation in Romans chapter 8:15 downward was to 17 that sunship is the reality of being God's child as well as his heirs. And as God's child, we are called to fellowship with him, walk with him in his nature and his character as well as you know as his hairs doing the assignments that he has allotted to us. But knowing God's purpose is not enough. It's fine to have the knowledge. It could be an intellectual thing but there must be more to it than that which requires us to understand how we fulfill that purpose that God has for us. So we took time to look at the pursuit of God's purpose. what I've been calling the road map of purpose that is to see exactly how the journey goes in terms of functioning as this child which is the regular maintenance of a devotional life then to see how that purpose goes as well in terms of functioning as heirs both natural and spiritual heirs what we are to do in the natural as well as what we are to do in the spiritual now having sorted that out we had the concern for what it does it take to fulfill God's purpose it is one thing to know the direction the road or the path to take. It's another thing entirely to be able to bear the burden that we are meant to as we carry out his purpose for our lives. And it's without concern that we studied what makes for growth and saw that growth happens on the mind of man. Um that this is important when a man is in God's purpose for the person to recognize that something has changed about him. You only come into God's purpose by receiving the spirit of sunship. Romans 8:15. We have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear but the spirit of sunship whereby we cry aba father. So it's for the reason that we have received the spirit that we are then able to walk in his purpose. But having a spirit means one part of the equation is solved. We are entirely brand new. We have the spirit of God. We have the nature of God. We have the life of God. We are one spirit with the Lord. But that doesn't account for what it takes when we speak or what growth means for the believer. And here I said repeatedly that growth is on the mind of man. So growth doesn't happen in our spirit. Our spirit is in a complete perfect and divine state. But when we talk about growth, it's something that happens in another domain and that's on our mind. At that point it was clear to us that we have to understand man fully. Now I'm doing a recap here because I want us to appreciate what we're going to be looking at from this particular episode which is the faith stand and we're going to see quite some things here where we are seeing the different maybe I should say kinds of faith or we are seeing faith in an awesome manner preferably. So how that faith in one instance may not be the same in another and it's important to appreciate faith in every instance but it's on the heels of everything that we have taught already. Now we saw that is on the mind of man that growth happens. Growth happens on our mind. So we grow spiritually on our mind. So spiritual growth is not an improvement in our spirit rather is the increase of the influence of our spirit on our mind as opposed to the influence of the flesh or the world on our mind. So we are to look at man in anome manner. If we are seeing this distinction between what happens in the spirit as opposed to what happens on the mind, then it's important to have an appreciation of man in his entirety. And two were important in doing that. We saw 1st 5 and verse 23 that showed us that man is spirit, soul and body. And also we saw 2 Corinthians 4 and:e 16. In 2 Corinthians 4:16, which we spent more time on, Paul told us that we can think of man as inward and outward man. And he said the outward man is perishing while the inward man is being renewed day by day. He would go on to call the outward man a tent, a building or a cloth. So it becomes clear to us that man is inward and outward man and there is the major part or the real man that is the inward man whilst the outer man is more of a tent and a particular text that helped us to understand that reality of man is what the Lord Jesus taught in Luke chapter 16. So in Luke 16, the Lord was speaking about Lazarus and the rich man, which is likely not merely a parable. Looks more like an actual account. He gave us the name of a person. Lazarus kept the the name of the rich man because of the um negative detail he was going to give. And in that account, he mentioned how they were both alive physically on the earth and eventually their outward man died or was exhausted and was buried. The rich man was buried. We're just told that Lazarus died. Then both of them had their inward man going to a disc. And what we notice is that this inward man, their spirit seems to have like the exact form or somewhat similar form to their outward man. But of course it is without the outward man. And also that inward man has memory, can reason, can take initiatives showing us that there's the presence of the mind with the inward man. And therefore we made this conclusion that man is inward man and outward man where the inward man is the spirit with the mind and the outward man is the body with a brain. And the reason why we are using that kind of description is because when we think about ourselves in the natural like we have a brain and we have our body. We understand that the controlling center of our body is our brain. Right? What you want to do what you process up in your brain is what you get to do. And you can choose to walk. You can choose to do this. and you understand that your brain is the controlling center of your of your person is the same way that we can have this new nature the spirit of God in us. We are one spirit with the Lord. We are spirit beings that have in mind but the controlling part of what we do with all that we have is our mind. And it's brought us to the study of our mind in an awesome manner where we have to look at different aspects of our mind. Because if growth happens on the mind and yet we find other things happening on the mind like reason like memory. We need to know which aspect of the mind exactly is the determinant of our work of our conduct. Which aspect of the mind is descriptive of the growth that we are talking about. So we saw about seven aspects of the mind. If you recall, we saw number one that there's reasoning in the mind. You can speak to someone and the person is thinking about what you're saying. And that's the first aspect of the mind, reasoning. We saw there's a second aspect of the mind which is memory. So when people think about what you are saying, they could still be thinking about it, but it's going to go into their memory, whether long time or short time. which is why we saw in the parable um in the account of Lazarus and the rich man that Abraham told the rich man remember that in your lifetime such and such happened. So he had memory still despite being without his body. So his mind was able to reason to make a request. The fact that he could make a request or take an initiative shows us free will which is a very important part of our mind. We have the will to take action to take initiative. We also have the will to agree when we are reasoning on something we can agree or disagree with what is put before us. Now if we agree with an information that is passed to us then it becomes part of our conviction. We saw that and then it is one thing that something is our conviction and another thing entirely that that conviction is our consciousness or that the conviction becomes something that we are reckoning. The conviction becomes something that we are presenting. The conviction becomes something that we are standing on which is very important for what we are looking at when we say faith stand. Right? So it becomes our reckoning or our consciousness. And we said there are two other aspects of the mind that related particularly with this reckoning or consciousness part of our mind and that's our emotions which are usually just a product of the state of reckoning that we have and lastly our conscience judgment. So our reactions when our conscience I don't think that thing is right and it's just your conscience sometimes it might not be your conviction you might not even be thinking it through whether you agree on something or not is just your reaction you just feel you just pass a judgment of your conscience against or for something. I remember I used the example of if someone's mind has been trained to see a red cloth tied upon a tree and then with cowies and all to be diabolical and maybe it is and maybe to even attach you know supernatural implications to it and maybe there are then someone who doesn't have such a reckoning is very unlikely to pass the same conscience judgment as that person because the person might just see it as a beautiful work of art while the other person everything they think that thing is about starts to have them reacting in that manner. at that moment and this is so important. It's going to come up when we look at many other things including the believer's authority etc. But this juncture let's just keep it at that there are seven aspects of the mind. Number one there is the reasoning part of the mind. Number two there is the memory part of the mind or aspect of the mind. Number three there is the will. Number four there is the conviction. Number five there is the consciousness or reckoning. Number six there is the there are emotions and there are conscience judgments. So we saw that even speaking about consciousness should better be done from our appreciation of conscience because conscience has three things at play. There is the preceding consciousness. The state of one's reckoning prior to the situation is the first thing when we talk about conscience. There is number two the I said there is the preceding consciousness. One number two there is the perception at the moment which is a dual perception at that moment. There is the physical perception. Let's go back to the example of the red cloth tied on a tree. You could already have a preceding consciousness about what such a thing means. Then there is the very moment where your conscience is witnessing it. So you have in contact with that thing and then you are physically observing the thing. So that's the first part of your perception. Then there's the co-perception or the dual perception or the secondary perception going on which is where we now say conscience and that word isis which is to perceive with or together with. So your mind is perceiving together with your natural senses and at that juncture when you're perceiving your mind is perceiving you. You are not just perceiving something in the natural which is neutral but now your mind's perception of the thing is making you react. Okay. So that's the second part of conscience. And there's the third part which is of course the judgment you are making. This is good this is bad this is evil this is fine etc. With all of this said about understanding the mind and we have seen those seven aspects of the mind and that the scriptures point us to we have we focused as we're wrapping up on the mind of man on the consciousness part and that's because it's an often ignored part and it's precisely what the work of the church seeks to address. So when we are told that there's the perfection of the saints in church is one thing that the church is giving us knowledge but that's not all the church seeks to do. It actually wants to transform our mind. So he wants us to renew or refresh continually the truth of God's word that it has presented to us that we have become the enlightened with. He wants us to renew it on our mind so that we are transformed to now walk as we are supposed to. And that's why Ephesians 4:17 after he spoke about the work that the Lord Jesus gave the leaders of the church to do in Ephesians 4:11-16. Ephesians 4:17 said this I say therefore that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles do. You should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles do. you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles do. So there is a possibility where we still have on our mind the same thinking, the same reasoning, the same reckoning and the same consciousness that the Gentiles do. Sometimes it can be our conviction has not even changed about who we are. Sometimes it can be our conviction has changed but our faith, our reckoning or our consciousness has not changed on that matter. So the church seeks to address that part. How is our consciousness changed? That's what we are studying now which is how does this part of our mind which is what is called the spirit of the mind and the reason why it's called the spirit of the mind is something I started to show us from the last episode the hidden man of the heart or the inner man so these are all description of this part of our mind is called hidden man of the heart that consciousness part of our mind is called inner man we are still going to come back to study it was look at another teaching on developing the inner man but here is we want to explain what list there is the hidden part of the man of the heart there is the inner or there is the spirit of the mind. Sometimes is also called soul. That part of our mind even though the entire person that we are can also be called soul. Having all of this in mind, how does this part of us change? I'm going to wrap up in this session with Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 20 to 24. Paul says that when we know the truth, he says we have learned the truth in Christ. He then told us to put off concerning our former conversation the old man and be renewed in the spirit of our mind and put on the new man. So he's saying that there's a putting off and putting on that affects this spirit of the mind, this consciousness part of us. And that's what we have been calling reckoning. That putting off and putting on which is also called presenting which has to do with standing. And from the next episode we are going to see where faith ties into this activity that transforms us. So for now, thank you. See you on the next one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, [music] visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your [music] questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, [music] don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp, and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_hog. [music] For now, stay blessed and keep walking in [music] his purpose.
