---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 9)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TgWo8lYqSXQ
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 9)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, brothers and sisters. Welcome to another episode of the Plleos podcast. You know, it's your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And what we just try to do is build you day by day to have these awesome mindsets that God's word expects of you so that you can fulfill the purpose that God has for your life. So within each episode, we try to lay one block upon the other to give you a full view of God's purpose, what you ought to do to walk in it and to fulfill it. We could say that the Bible is written to that end to transform you, to renew your mind, maybe I should first say, and then to transform you to fulfill God's purpose. And good enough we are presently studying on the subject matter of God's purpose itself because we may be talking about other things who you are in Christ talking about what you have how to walk and yet every detail of what he said could even be talking about certain doctrinal truths that are not immediately relevant to your walk as it were but all of those details will still help your walk in God's purpose. At the moment we are looking at the subject matter of God's purpose itself. Albeit we are looking at the pursuit of it. Right? We've seen already we have been following the podcast that the gospel lays claim to being the truth and proves itself to be so. And is on that premise that we trust revelation particularly of why we are here which is what God's purpose is. And we've then gone on to see the reality of God's purpose. And presently we're looking at the posit of God's purpose. But to situate us today again, we'll just remind ourselves, you know what we've seen. We've seen that God's purpose from Ephesians 1:9 and 5 is sunship. And we have seen from Romans 8:15-17 that this purpose of sunship that God has means he wants children and hes. So it is the desire of the creator god to have us in fellowship with him. You know when we say children it means we have his very life and nature. We can relate with him on terms of familiarity. So we can relate with familiarity. You know he's our father. We don't have the sense of being adopted where somewhere at the back of our mind is the is the little bit of doubt about how valuable we are to the person in question. You know, but for us there is a certainty that he reproduces, he b us, we are his very seed and therefore we can fellowship with him on such terms. Even for them, when you are God's child having his nature, he wants and desires of us to walk in that nature and character. So those two things capture wholesomely what is expected of us as children of God. But then we still have the other side of the equation to deal with which is being ears of God. And the term when it says we are ears of God, it means we are people who have been assigned a lot. So of what someone owns, of what someone has, he has given a lot to us. And if you recall from our study, we've seen that we have been given a spiritual assignment as well as a natural assignment. Or usually I'll start by saying the natural assignment and spiritual assignment. It's fine whichever one just to help us have the full view of what God has called us to do. So he has given us a natural assignment has given us a spiritual assignment as ears of God. We've taken quite some time to examine our natural assignment already. Right? We've seen that the natural assignment given onto us by God is a natural work natural estate that we have in our hands to manage. So how do I know what I'm supposed to do? How am I supposed to pursue that? 1 Corinthians 7:17 has been a cardinal text for us in this regard where Paul said, "As God has peded to each one or as God has distributed to each one, as he has called each one, so let him walk and it was talking about the conditions we are in at the instance of salvation. So as salvation, you find out that this is in your hands. This status, this situation, this condition, this work is in your ends. then you commit yourself faithfully to carrying it out understanding that it is part of God's orchestration for your walk with him. Now at that instance when Paul was speaking you know as God has sped to each one he first had in mind marital status. So whether you are married or married or married to a believer or not the believer those were the issues at play in this conversation. And he says God was aware so it's fine. Even though his overall instruction and why he said that in the first place is for the believer you are meant to marry someone of similar persuasion. You don't want to create friction unnecessary disharmony in your and not just disharmony even in interaction dishmony in pursuit for yourself by virtue of your choice of a of such a closely partner you know and that's the intelligence of God's word on the matter. So clearly he's saying oh you should marry a believer but then you were not saved at the instance you were here God is well aware and then you are saved it is ordained in the churches that you should you know walk in this manner from whence you have received God's purpose. Now even though he was dealing with that marital um marital status condition situation circumstance primarily he extended it beyond that and started talking about your religious identity status like circumcision I want to argue cultural identity status but it was more more of a religious implication um in Paul's intention there he brought that up then he brought up other things you know like our natural work or assignment and he says if you're a slave don't be bothered about it. If you can be made free then you should use it. So clearly he's saying God works with us from where we are at the instance of salvation or recognition of his purpose. And with that in mind, you know, we should appreciate that we start out our natural our pursuit of our natural assignment from the very instance that we receive salvation. whatever you find yourself doing, working class, um career person, business person, um freelancer, um a student, someone in the academia, someone doing um a social work, um nonprofit organization type of work, etc. So, you start out from there and you begin the walk with God. The positive natural assignment, we eventually summed it up in five things. So I'll quickly go through that and we move back to our spiritual assignment that we've been looking at. The first thing is um you start out from where you are. Second thing you take advantage of opportunities that come to you. The third thing is you pursue your own desire. Right? Those that use this world as much misusing it. The fourth thing is you are open to the leading of the spirit. Okay. And the last one is um you are maximally productive. That's the instruction we have that this work that is the Lord's work, our natural assignment is going to judge our faithfulness to the same is going to require of us that which we are doing in it and that we should be faithful to what the Lord has called us to. Now, having said all of that, we proceed to our spiritual assignment. What we did earlier is to establish that for sure in God's word there is such a thing as a spiritual assignment. you know which we have said earlier it's something we should fully recognize there's a lot given to us specific to us that we should be aware of. Now there's a real difference between um natural assignment and spiritual assignment in many ways. You know natural assignment has a lot of what you will as you like um disposition to it at the um um generally let me put it that way. Even though there is the room for delivering of spirit on our natural assignment, we shouldn't have a closed mind about this. You could have a belief system that allows you to have a closed mind on your natural assignment being part of what God wants you to do. Unfortunately, you can do nothing against the truth before the truth. So, you would be armening yourself because when you stand before the Lord, he would expect you to have regarded your natural assignment that way as his work and to have been open to the le of the spirit about it. I mean, you could run through script scripture and see the role of the leading and working of the spirit on natural assignment amongst different people. So, there is no escaping the very important place that he has. But it's sort of different when we get to our spiritual assignment. This is not as you know as you desire type of situation with spiritual assignment. It's it has it own rules and it's it own direction the way we go the way it unfolds. And though it unfolds generally as you'll see um at the beginning it unfolds onto um more specific more intent the more intentional things that he has for um spiritual assignment. We saw that we can see this sense of an inheritance relative to our ministry or spiritual assignment in acts one but that account can be taken as very specific talking about the apostles. One thing we came out of from that text is that the word lot geros is used parallel with the word pat meus and it's common sense to know that but we looked at some text to you know to establish that as well within scripture like acts chapter 8 I believe 21 then Colossians chapter 1 and verse is that 12 now? Yeah, God has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. But the word deserted to have a part of the inheritance slight. So the idea of inheritance Lord and part you can see them going hand in hand together. Now having established that we saw that several instances of scripture tell us that we have a part in the body of Christ but more importantly in the ministry in the body of Christ. One instance we saw was 1 Corinthians 12 27 says you are the body of Christ and members of a part. We have a part in the body of Christ. We saw um I think I took us from Romans chapter 12 as well. We saw that we have a part there and we saw Ephesians 4:7 as well as Ephesians 4 and 16. Those were the major text. Now Ephesians 4:7 says to each of us grace is given according to the measure of the gift of Christ. So it says each of us have grace. Now notice the word is each, right? So each is not all of you have you know I could say all of you have 1 million in this group and if I say that then it may mean that there's 1 million that belongs to all of us collectively or there is several um I mean we have maybe someone has some thousand other persons some thousand commulatively we have 1 million it could mean different things but it's not very clear when that kind of a statement is made that um all of you have this. But if we say each of you has this, then it's very clear what is being said. He's saying each individual has whatever he's pointing out as the objects in that statement. So each individual the subjects have this particular um object. So he's like each of you have each of you has a hand or a leg. So each person has their own. Now in this case says to each of us grace has been given. So each person has this thing he calls grace. Now grace is quite a wording in the Bible. Um you know there are words that like that like you say thin. Fin is quite a word. I mean thin is the word for thing. So it could be anything but there are those words like gift. If I say gift so I mean I need to fill in what gift I'm talking about because many things can be a gift. So gift is is like a carrier word. It has this possibility of doing many things. Grace can be like that more restricted than than gift because it defines the nature of what it's talking about. But you you have to find out what applies in the situation. Say grace it could be salvation the um freely given graciously done unearned uh privilege of salvation that we have. Now in this context grace is not being like that. It's talking about something we have unearned that is given to us for a specific purpose or work. So it's not in the sense of salvation something freely given to us on end by which we have this status by which we have this nature that's just done. Not of course there's something to do when you're saved. But that's not the sense when I'm talking about the grace of salvation. It's just the end of you are now saved something that makes you saved. That's just the goal. In this case is something given to you that makes you do something. It's not that it doesn't end with you just adding it. There's something to be done. So to each of us grace is given according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Of course to understand the grace. He says the grace is according to the measure of the gift of Christ. We need to understand the gift of Christ. And the next text tells us what the gift of Christ is. He said he gave gifts to humanity. And then by the time we get to verse 11, he told us the gift he gave the apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastor and teachers for the perfection of his saints. So the gift that Christ gave uh or we can say is this responsibility or this leadership responsibility that is to perfect the saints. That's the gift that Christ gave. And by time you trace that back, you're like, oh Jesus gave the leadership responsibility to perfect the saints. He gave me grace according to that gift. I mean he's saying that I'm supposed to do this leadership work, isn't it? Yeah, that's what he's saying. and he has given you grace for that. So this is grace pertaining to ministry or grace pertaining to spiritual assignment. And in case you are in any doubt about that, by the time Paul goes on from Ephesians 4:11, particularly when he gets to 16, it's clear that each one of us as members of the body have our part. And the only way the body grows or increases is because each one does its own share. Actually said it this way, each part does its own share. And as each meo's part does its own share metron. So we all have a share to do in this work of ministry. Clara, we're going to pick it up from here because now I want to look at how do I pursue exactly that spiritual assignment. I have a share of a part of my Lord. What is the next step for me to take and we'll see that in the very next episode. Thank you. &gt;&gt;
