---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 4)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpC5m6pdVxI
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 4)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Brothers and sisters, welcome. Welcome to the Polaros podcast, your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. Okay, so we're continuing today our study on the pursuit of God's purpose. What do I do now that I found out about God's purpose from my life? I've made major progress in that regard. First thing we've said is recognizing God's word as truth in our life has led us to see what God's purpose is, right? We have found that God's purpose is sunship. Sunship is that we are his child or you are his child and you are his hair. As his child, you are called to this life of fellowship with him and walking in his nature and character. And our life of fellowship with him is a is a matter of walking. W A L K are walking with God. You are living walking with God and then it's both a walk with him devotionally in fellowship but then a walk in his nature and character. I'm trying to make a point there which is that that walk should be two ways. You know someone can say well God wants me to be his child and to fellowship with him and then that means you spend all day just singing worshiping you spend all day just praying you would have missed what God intends for you that way because the reality of you being his child should flow into the responsibilities of you being his heir. Right? So there must be that proper estimation of what it means to be his child in fellowship with him that does not hamper on other realities that you should be aware of. Now that is to say that our walk with God in fellowship must be devotional but it should also be infused into our day and you should have a devotional means there's dedicated time. That's what I intend to say. So you have dedicated time you spend in fellowship with God. And there's a lot of example we find in scripture in that regard including our Lord waking up early having that time you know that set aside like the first thing in the day you just fellowship with God and from there you have like the day put together for you by God's spirit and then you can set out and pursue what you are doing through the day. Now through the day you should still maintain a heart of fellowship with God and there are times you could easily tell that you know you just need a break just some time. Okay, I should add this that readily it should be a matter of commitment as well to take breaks through the day. Uh this is not the teaching for that. Some other time we'll get to it where we'll see that the culture of the church through the through its history as well as even before the founding of the church by the Lord Jesus. We have always had like dedicated times of dedicated times of daily prayer in the church. So there are times in the day though even independent of that that you could feel the weight of worldliness sort of gaining some ascendancy on your mind and you just have to like just shut out a little bit have some fellowship with the father get back in that place where you shed off the weight of the world and you are refreshed by God's spirit. So that's something you should do as this child regularly you have regular times of devotion. Well, since I'm talking about this now, when I say this, I could invite you to the Plleos prayer watch. We have the Plleos prayer watch every day, morning, afternoon, and evening times of prayer where we just spend time watching. We just spend time praying. So, you can make the commitment of that because it's 30 minutes, 15 minutes, 15 minutes. It shouldn't hamper on your your regular your own personal times of prayer. So, that's the intention. You should still be able to take out another personal 30 minutes for some or less or more where you are able to fellowship with the father. You could do that by you could be part of that by joining the pleos community channel. I should assume you already on it but if you are not you can go to the website you see the opportunity to join the pleos community channel there. That's pleos.org. Yeah. So you are God's child. That's what we're talking about. God's purpose. You are God's child. you should walk with him and as in fellowship with him and also in his nature and character. We have so much to still say there but let me just hold off for now. I'm trying to resolve like the foundational issues which this hair part of the equation has more things to unlock. When we get to the next thing after pursuit of God's purpose where we're looking we're going like into some very central part of the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ you would appreciate every piece of God's purpose we've been discussing and how that part affects what you are now going to be doing. But this one is just giving like the general road map that this is how God's purpose is and this is how it unfolds. All right. So you're a child then you here as is here you have a natural assignment as well as a spiritual assignment. No doubt the spiritual assignment is priority as a matter of value. Even though I've emphasized that not everyone will commit as much time even most people will not commit as much time to their spiritual assignment as to their natural assignment. or even your heart you do not hold it as the most valuable thing that you are called to do as a matter of priority something is wrong with your understanding and estimation whatever you do in the natural pales in comparison in comparison rather to the value of souls the value of the lives of people what we do in the natural must not be spoken of lightly is the Lord's work but what we do in the spiritual is serious is grave it has eternal implications you know and shouldn't be held with levity. Something must burn in our hearts to see the worth of souls of lives of people who need the light of God's word to see the need for redemption that is fulfilled in Christ and for they themselves to be set into God's purpose for their lives. Now having said all of that a central text I've been looking at on this discussion of the posture of God's purpose has been for now 1 Corinthians 7:17. And you recall that the very first thing I wanted you to really see and hold strongly in your heart is the significance of your person in God's purpose. You shouldn't just see yourself as another face in the crowd, just one of the people existing. You shouldn't just see yourself as just freelancing through the world just trying to max out as much pleasure as you can since you don't know why you are even here in the first place. That shouldn't be your lot as a believer in Christ. Now pleasure is of God but like I like to emphasize pleasure gets its value from purpose right I think you can imagine if you spend your entire day sleeping is going to be you are going to you're going to start to hate what should have been pleasurable which is sleep because the value of it should come from work the value of rest should come from work so sometimes true of food as well like hunger sometimes should drive the value of eating where you don't spend like your time eating I think you just start to hate food itself care not taken. Well, all of that to say that pleasure is of God is one who made it. But pleasure was designed by him to complement purpose. Pleasure was designed by him to complement purpose. There is God's purpose for your life. There is God's purpose for your life and it's significant. That's just the point I want you to hold there. It makes you rather significant. You are a significant part of what God is doing on earth. I do hope you get it into you. But I do hope you get it into you the right way as well because there's a way people value their significance. There's a way just a general motivational speaker can make you think of yourself as significant which would have some elements of truth to it. You are a unique individual like you're a different person just ordinarily like you're just a separate entity entirely you know but when we're talking about it from the standpoint of God's purpose is not just the fact that you are a different individuated space of consciousness like you are this individual person conscious in his own self you know different from others having his own reasoning and observations but what we are saying is that you are significant in the value God has placed on you not only in creating you and redeeming you but in assigning things specifically to you. That's that's really what I want you to realize that I have that sense must done on you that you have I have specific things the Lord wants me to do. If you can value yourself like that then you can actually begin living life the way it was intended for you to that said what do you do when you start out that way? He said let us walk in the state where which we are called whether circumcised or uncircumcised. And he said, "If you a slave, don't be bothered about it. You are the Lord's freed man. You are not the slave of men. Don't think of yourself like that. You bought at the price. So understand yourself to be serving the Lord is the Lord's world. The earth is Lord's and the fullness thereof. Creation belongs to him. The things you find yourself privileged to do not withstanding the conditions. Take it as part of the service you are rendering unto God within creation." Now, which interesting it could be at the first for your survival. I know at that moment you're only thinking about your survival. Fair enough. But your role on earth is to do what the Lord wants you to do, what he has allotted you to do, to serve your part in what God is doing on it. But I told you to notice that in verse 21 when he said, "Were you called while a slave? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can be made free, rather use it." So he shows us two things there. We start from where we are, but we take advantage of opportunities. If you can be free. Now if you can be free was simply a matter of vation he won't have to say if you can be free since he's saying if you can be free you should use it if it was just you have the desire to be free use it but we are saying that he's speaking to limitation of the pe of the persons in question and they are taking advantage of opportunities available to them. So if his rule is that you can if you can be free use it then if everybody could be free it will simply say use it rather than put up right but the very statement if you can be free is showing constraints limitations to opportunities available to you and so the rule remains today in our world may be different from the way it was in theirs that you start out from where you are and then you take advantage of opportunities that means it is part of the wisdom of God's word objectively written in his direct revelation to us that we should take advantage of opportunities is not something hidden. It is something directly said to us. You should take advantage of opportunities. So in carrying out your assignments, natural assignments, we are still talking about that at this juncture and I want to wrap up on natural assignments today in poss. I'll talk about positive purpose, spiritual assignment. How do you go about it in the next one? But the first thing start out where you are. And I said you have to start out where you are. If where you are is nothing to do then that's something to do which is looking for what to do as well as making yourself available even if for free in something you can do right like interning for free working somewhere for free just doing something even as you look for what would pay you then the second rule other than starting from where you are is taking advantage of opportunities. We are told to use opportunities if you can if an opportunity opens up it says to take advantage of it to use it. So usually that's the progression of our natural assignment. But there's one more detail that we see that can help us to appreciate a third phase that the scripture talks about that can happen to us in our natural assignment. 1 Corinthians 7 it says in verse 29 this I say brethren the time is short. 1 Corinthians 7 still I'm on verse 29. The time is short so that from now on even those who have wives should be as though they had none. Those who weep as though they did not weep. Those who rejoice as though they do not rejoice. Those who buy as though they do not possess. And I like verse 31. It says those who use this world as not misusing it. For the form of this world is passing away. And that those who use this world shows us a similar the exact word actually that we see in verse 21. If you can be made free, use the opportunity. But this time he's not using an opportunity that comes to you. He's using the very world itself. This shows like the phase where you can pursue your own desires in the world. This just what I like to do. Opportunities are not a matter of what you like to do. They might just be what you have to do. It might just be what you can do better than where you just presently are at. But this third phrase is saying those who use this world as not misusing it and not misusing it there of course from everything has been saying is likely pointing to a misuse for self. So he's done more for selfish reasons. They abusing the world. Sometimes he's talking about evils and illegal things as well. But selfishness is really at play because those who weep as though they not weep, you should not become so self-absorbed even in sorrow, even in celebration. And is the same way not so self-absorbed, even in using this world as not misusing it. So there are those three faces I want you to take note of when it comes to the positive natural assignment where you start from, opportunities that come to you and your own desires relative to the world. Things you can just do of your own accord. This is so important. We could look at other like first Timothy it says ch them that reach in this world. So these are people just using the world as they desire. Well, I might make some few further comments on this in the next episode. My time is running on me. But in the next one, we'll try to look at our spiritual assignment and how we pursue it as well. On that note, catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
