---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 12)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NG1ouDWnl6o
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 12)

All right, brothers and sisters. Good to have us here again on the Perus podcast. Thank you for making out the time to listen. It's your daily dose of God's word, transforming it to fulfill God's purpose. And we have been looking at the postit of God's purpose. Let's see hopefully we can complete today. So presently we are looking at our spiritual assignments because we have seen that God's purpose is sunship. He wants us as his child and his heirs as his child. We are to fellowship with him and then we walk in his character. One thing fulfills the child part of the equation which is devotion. Yes, that fulfills it. Devotion, reading, hearing and reading and hearing God's word and prayer. Or I could put prayer first. Of course, I think it's first you were to order it that way. But alongside that, you know, reading and hearing God's word, renewing your mind with God's word, that affects your prayer, you know, that fulfills the child part of the equation. You should take it very seriously once you are given to prayer to affect you to affect how you talk, how you walk, what you do, to affect your character. Sorry, to affect your character and your walk in the nature of God. Now we are looking at the other part which is being of God. We have already seen how we pursue our natural assignment. We have listed out the things there. We begin from where we are. Whatever work we have in our hands. I have addressed in earlier episode what happens when you have nothing here and by virtue of God's word. You find anything to do even if you are not being paid because you have to work. You shouldn't be idle. Now you should be wise enough to choose something you do that will probably give you room to still look out for where you can be paid. Right? But you have to work. You have to get your hands working. Is the way of of God's spirit. It's the way of God's spirit. is the example of even the leadership of the church Paulus etc. So we've seen natural assignment listen to the episodes you get that now we're looking at our spiritual assignment and we said it's the most neglectable and neglected part and usually it's because of ignorance and growth we trust that you know these episodes and more upcoming ones would really help you renew your mind. So I I really encourage just listen through and fight those um wrong seeds that have been planted on your heart about work. You know the fear, the timidity, the uh the wrong estimation and value of your spiritual assignment. You need to intentionally combat those things that renew your mind to see the value and the place of your spiritual assignment to agree with it to partner with what the Lord wants you to do in his purpose for your life. So that we're looking at that in our spiritual assignment we have a path just like our natural one you know we we have a lot we have a path acts one is one of the text that helps us to see that but it was a specific sense in a very general sense we have other texts like 1 Corinthians 12 particular 27 but even the entire context of that chapter um helps us to understand that we have Romans 12 we have we didn't go into details on all of this this like this is if to do that we're going to be studying ministry in the body of Christ which would be an ecclesiology um study teaching [snorts] but we just did you know a very basic rough examination just to bring out the point that each of us have a part that's the only thing I wanted to see there so whether it's Romans 12 you read or it's um 1 Corinthians 12 you read it is evidently and abundantly declared that every believer has a part in the spiritual work assignment ministry that God has given onto us you won't be able to escape that understanding And so [snorts] the last text is Ephesians 4. You know that establishes that to us. Ephesians 4:7, right? We see that we have a part to each of us. Grace is given according to the measure of the gift of Christ. You should already tell from the idea of the measure. So each person has according to the measure. So each one has a measure. If you're in doubt about that, verse 16 will clear it. Says each part does its measure. So each part has his own measure. Now recognizing that you have a spiritual assignment, what do you do? What do you do? You have a spiritual assignment. The Lord has given it unto you. What are you supposed to do? There is no doubt. So I took us to, you know, the general understanding we have of what to do first, which is go into all the world and preach the gospel. Right? Mark 16. But then immediately I said, let's look at Mark 28. Go therefore make disciples. But the reading of Matthew 2 shows you that the goal is a product of the disciplehip of the apostles because they were the ones told to go and reproduce others that go as they do which is exactly what Paul was spelling out in Ephesians 4. Paul was telling the Ephesians all of you have a path, right? All of you have grace according to the measure to function as leaders to perfect the saints. By the time you read through, you realize not all of them are doing that yet. He's speaking to the reality of what they are called to in his purpose. Ephesians 4 as a whole where Paul starts he talked about God's purpose in Ephesians 3. Then he prayed and the prayer ended up with him talking about the church which is ecclesia right church. Then chapter one verse one of chapter 4 starts with walk worthy of the calling. So you have been called into the church and walking worthy of that calling is walking in the equality that we share. So all of us are the same thing in the church. Then verse seven then says but to each of you grace is given. So after highlighting our sameness and similarity sness really just our sness in nature in having the spirit the unity of the spirit he then says hey there's a place you guys differ each of you have this and it's going to happen by leaders reproducing other people to end up like that. So let's just um have that on our hearts and recognize that we um recognize that we have a spiritual assignment. I like you to say I have a spiritual assignment in God's purpose. It's priority is major is important. It's the most valuable thing that the Lord has given to me to do. The lives of people depend on it. I have a spiritual assignment, the work of ministry given unto me by the Lord Jesus. I have a specific and exclusive lot in ministry which I have to be faithful to otherwise it will ordinarily go undone. Amen. Now ordinarily go undone doesn't mean God is not going to ensure it's still done but that is the value of your part. It would ordinarily go undone. I really hope you understand like the place you have in God's purpose and he wants you to have that place. He wants you to value yourself like that. Yes, I know it's something to also be aware of that you are not indispensable which is precisely why I said we to ordinarily go undone but it doesn't have to be with the mindset that although it means I'm not I'm dispensable means I'm not significant. I mean anybody can do anything. That's not the mindset of the scriptures. Even for people who failed to do what they were to do, they were told that they would have had that responsibility which is God's design. The entire framework of walking in God's plan. So we understand this of God's for knowledge. Why even though he's exclusively giving to people what they have yet their failure doesn't what God is doing etc etc. Our first step in carrying out our spiritual assignment is to be plugged into disciplehip. As when we read the great commission, the mission of the church, that's the proper understanding we are meant to have. The orderly understanding of it is wow, this means if we are not the apostles who themselves have been discipled by the Lord and were even put under the oversight of Peter, but please we're not going to any of those details here were put under the oversight of Peter. um you know um the the order since we are not them the apostles is we are to be discipled and that's what happened acts 242 they continue steadfastly in the apostles doctrine so we are to be discipled to now do the work so first thing be plugged into disciplehip second thing um go from where you are then want to look at the third and the fourth thing then the fifth one now the the sec the third thing is what do you when you go so go is go out like take action don't sit still don't wait don't expect don't think something will happen as you're praying people will just come to you people have those ideas oh god will announce you and all that that's not what he told you to do he said go stop hiding stop shrinking it's so people will talk about oh don't look for visibility that kind of thinking is not a biblical one you are meant to try to shine light so you can talk about don't put attention on yourself but that you as a preacher trying to put out the word is not trying to ensure it is visible to people. You are kind of not serious with what you are doing which would also make you visible. Not because you want to be visible, if your motives are right, but because you have a work to do and you have to do the work. I'm not even talking about even if you are skill, right? I'm not talking about even if you are preaching as with a greater responsibility in ministry, you still have to be visible. Even if you are doing a small work, you have to go out where people are. You have to minister to them. You have to go and be a blessing to them within any sphere that you are opportunity to to be. You can't hide. You have to put out the word. Um what do we do when we go? So Mark said go go go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. So what we have to do when we go is to preach. And the preaching will cause people to believe and be baptized and be saved. What I want us to notice here is the idea of what we are to do when we preach. He uses that word to kerus. So we can sometimes say preach is to evangelize which is to give the good news to people to proclaim the good news to people. But when you not see the word keruso it shows you the manner and the goal that you have when you preach because kerroso is about publishing. If I say go and keruso this information what you're going to probably do in some particular time is to write it in newspaper because you want people to know. So you might be told like you are registering something involve like maybe a complaint or this or some there's a change the part of the law will say ensure it is published in such and such kind of newspaper because they want it to be a public information to be known. That's precisely what the word kerus mean. If you look at the root of the of the word kerus all the way back in the Hebrew you're going to find is about being a tongue cryer. Again that's the work of someone that is publishing. So the work of preaching the gospel is the work of publishing, publicizing, proclaiming the gospel. He didn't say go and speak the gospel, go and communicate the gospel. But when you say go and publicize, it is communication which will require you using the different means of communication you have. Why am I saying that? You can preach the gospel by speaking to people. You can preach the gospel via your WhatsApp status. And I don't mean though you could even do that. You could have a maybe a flyer that says something to buy effect. You could have a tract you can give to someone. That's an effective way. You [snorts] could have a flyer that direct someone to where the gospel is, right? You know, like pleos.org, you know, go here. You're going to find not maybe answers to a question that you have. You are directing someone. What you just did is to publicize the message. The person had a question. You're like, "Oh, the answer is on peruse." Why not check it out and, you know, hear it for yourself? One thing preaching isn't is forcing people, coercing people. That isn't the attitude and spirit as well. That is even counterproductive to precisely what we're trying to do. We're trying to persuade people to just lay forth our evidence as sufficient and as the best evidence for the questions as yeah as the best evidence evidenced conclusions for the questions we have been imposed with you can say by existence or depending on your conclusion from those questions by God. Right? So this is the best evidence conclusion. It's not this other position. It's not this one. This is the truth. We are bearing witness of the truth like the Lord said about himself. John 18:37. So your work is to publicize the message. Publicize the message. Publicize the message. You do it by speaking to people oneonone. And I'll show you why speaking to people oneonone is important. Because that's the fourth point we've said. Be plugged into disciplehip. Be discipled in a local church. Go publicize. That means go is deliberately seek actions and initiative then publicize the message. Now why is preaching 101 very important? Because you are now to disciple those you publicize it to think about it. Almost every other means of publicity won't give you an effective means of disciplehip. So one of the reasons why it's very effective to go preach to people oneonone is for the reason of disciplehip. That doesn't stop you from obeying Jesus's keroso instruction of publicizing it as widely even fully as you should. Right? So, but you are then to disciple people. Very important. So, you make out the time to disciple people as you carry out the work. The last thing is to keep growing in the church onto disciplehip as you are led by the spirit of God. My time has run on me. I've made all the points clear, but I'm going to build on it a bit more. Even though we'll likely be switching on to another topic still within this line, um we're looking at post of God's purpose. Why don't you probably look at how to fulfill God's purpose and then I trust you are going to get better understanding both of your spiritual natural assignments as we do that. Catch you on the next one.
