---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 3)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkaxjfAXqvU
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 3)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, brothers and sisters. Welcome to another episode of the Plleos podcast, your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And we've seen quite some things already. Want to make some progress today. Um, we have seen the place that the gospel holds in our life is a place of truth. We have seen the reality of God's purpose in this question of truth and we have found that God's purpose is sunship. We have explained that sunship has two realities that make two realities um in it. The first is that we are children of God and the second is that we are hairs of God. And in this particular episode, we are continuing our study on the pursuit of purpose. So we are not here trying to find out about God's purpose. We have done that. We are looking more into how exactly do we pursue or what exactly do we do? How do we start? What's the next step? And so on and so forth. Now a lot of the emphasis I've made has been on recognizing the significance of your of your place or your part in God's purpose. It's one thing to have received the gospel. It's another thing to have accepted the reality of God's purpose. But even when people do that, you find that they have general attitude of somewhat of an indifference. They are not really as driven as they ought to be. As though they have a wrong understanding of what purpose entails. Particularly when we talk about being hairs of God, you'll find that the recognition of our inheritance in the life of the Lord Jesus, in the life of Paul was is quite different from what obtains with some people. The Lord had the sense of having something to finish. He must finish the work that has been given to him. We find a similar sense with Paul as well. You know, one of the things Paul said in Acts chapter 20 and verse 24, I believe it says, "None of these things move me, neither count my life there unto myself that I may finish my race with joy, the ministry which I received of the Lord to testify of the gospel of the grace of God." So we saw him him centering on his spiritual assignment in God's purpose as his race and um very clearly it's it was with a sense of I want to finish the race that the Lord has given me. So there he had a very serious sense of significance about himself that we are meant to have about ourselves as well. And one of the texts I've been looking at, we're going to continue from is 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 17. Here Paul said in verse 17, as God has distributed to each one, the word parted, he has parted to each one as he has called each one, so let him walk. So there is that which God has parted to you. And that's very specific. There's what he has parted to you just like he has what he has parted to me what he has parted to someone else and recognizing that it is parted to each one not that the same part is given to several people that's not the idea that God's word gives us should register on us that sense of exclusivity and therefore a weight of significance like let's imagine if someone is given like a bigger portion and you're giving a smaller portion it's if your portion is not done it means it's still gets undone except you do it. It doesn't matter that that person is doing something um that is bigger in quantity or more visible in impact than another person. If you do not do your part, your part goes undone. Now, we've seen that in God's purpose, he will still work out the fulfillment of his plan. So, he will work it out one way or the other to ensure that his goals are fulfilled. But that is not the norm. That's now a reckoning of the unfaithfulness of some to still bring to fruition his plan. It should be the case that in him allotting a part to you, you are faithful to that part and you do yours whilst others do theirs. Okay? So God has parted to each one, you could say it, God has parted to me. Just say that say God has parted to me my part in his purpose. So there is something he has given to you to do. Now we saw the rule that Paul gave. He said as God has parded to each one as he has called each one to let him walk. And he says so I ordained in all the churches. So this was a rule set out for every church and it's applicable to us today. He said I've set it forth that this should be done in all the churches. And he begins to show us what he means by the condition in which they are called and the manner in which God pathed to each one. So in verse 18 he said was anyone called while uncircumcised. So the idea of as God distributed or as the as there is talking about your state status your standing in which you received the call of God or in which you received or entered into God's purpose. So he says were you called has or while uncircumcised let it le while circumcised let such a person not become uncircumcised. I'm on verse 18 of 1 Corinthians 7 was anyone called whilst uncircumcised let him not become circumcised. Then he says circumcision is nothing uncircumcision is nothing but keeping the commandment of God is what matters. So, he's just pointing out different you could say identity markers, you could say status um signifiers um that people have. So, you could also be and at this point it was a big deal. This one was not even like a cultural identity marker. Circumcision was usually taken to be somewhat of a religious identity marker. So is a way you show that you belong amongst God's people um particularly in the roots of the Christian faith Judaism. So and now this served a purpose at the time that it no longer counts in the reality of faith upon the fulfillment of Christ's work. And so Paul is pointing out that that is not really an issue. It's a non-issue in your walk with God. And then after saying that you know he says in verse 20 let each one remain in the same calling in which was called. And now he brings in our natural assignment right in verse 21. Were you called a slave do not be concerned about it but if you can be made free rather use it. So two things are in that text and we're going to look at them after I read subsequent verses. Verse 22 says he who is called in the Lord while a slave is the Lord's freed man. Likewise, who is called white free is Christ slave. So he's saying that the work that Christ has done affect both of them. They are now owned by Christ. So the is the one who the Lord has made free to serve him. Even though he's still a slave in his natural standing and he's saying the one that is free is still Christ slave is still a servant of Christ. Now you were bought at a price. Do not become slaves of men. Can you imagine say continue as a slave but you shouldn't be slaves of men. Now this by no means teach is this is not by any means rather teaching um disrespect for authority in secular spaces. No that's not even impulse theology. Right? We have seen Colossians 3:22 downwards. Ephesians 6:5 downwards where he was saying to regard and treat the leaders in our secular work as unto the Lord. That means we are seeing them as people set there by the Lord [snorts] even when we accept what they are doing is for harm. You know we have um we have the what is it called governmental authority as Romans 13 would say wielding authority to punish evil and to encourage good. So um and we are in a time where the system encourages that. So someone use something for harm. I mean you should raise an alarm and all that. But he's pointing out even times where they are not maybe the most um what's it called the most encouraging of persons to work with we must still regard them as put there by the lord as we are doing our work despite the fact that we could seek better opportunities. Okay. So I've read 23. You were born with a price. Therefore do not become slaves of men. So the believer to have that recognition that is serving Christ. Then 24 says, "Brethren, let each one remain with God in the same calling way which was called." So the rule that Paul set forth from what we can read is God's purpose as taking into account your states at the instance of receiving salvation when you are called, right? as the Lord has called each one. The state you were in whilst called, God's purpose has taken that into account and he doesn't place an extra burden on you. No, but rather walks with you and he walks with you as well. He walks with you wk and he walks with us as we carry out his way from that state. So if you're uncircumcised, no big deal. God works with you with that. Um if you are circumcised, no big deal. God works with you with that. and equally says if you're a slave, no big deal. God works with you in that. So you should recognize that the starting point of your faith and of your knowledge of God's purpose. So God knows the point you get saved. Unfortunately for some people that's not the point they are enlightened about God's purpose. But he also knows the point you get enlightened about his purpose that wow you are now in his purpose and the conditions you are in at that very moment is well aware of that is well accounted for in his fornowledge. We are talking about God and so he's going to work out his purpose with you right from that point. So were you called whilst a slave do not be concerned about it. It doesn't affect God's dealings are working with you. But then he says, "But if you can be made free, rather use it, employ it, or take advantage of it." Very important. So when we talk about the positive purpose, the first rule, and I'm starting off with the natural assignments intentionally, I'll come to our spiritual assignment as well, but you find that the rules are similar. But the first rule when it comes to our natural assignment is start where you are. So, it could be that you are an employee. It could be that you're an employer. It could be that you are you work as a contract staff. It could be that you're a freelancer. Could be that um you own a business. I think I've said that, you know, could be that you are an apprenticed. It could be that you're a student. Whatever condition you found that you were called in, let it one abide in that calling where he was called is the rule that was given about how we walk in the faith in God's calling in God's purpose. You start from there. That's what that text is for. Now, at this point, I have to point out that it's possible the text might have been abused or whatever God has called you to do, stay there. Of course, that's what you should do, right? Whatever God has courage to do, you should be faithful to what God has called you. I mean, there's enough text to talk about obedience to God's call, faithfulness to God's will and purpose. But this particular type good verse 20 and 24 that says to abide in the calling you were called is about staying in the status staying in that status maintaining that identity or starting with that estate that you are in at the point of salvation and enlightenment about God's purpose for your life. So what condition are you in? That's where you are to start. You're a student start from there. Freelancer start from there. so on and so forth. Now, that's the rule. Now, let me ask something. You know, someone might ask the question, well, I'm not a student. I'm not employed. I'm not an employer. I don't have a business. What am I supposed to do? The state I mean, am I supposed to abide in the state of being unemployed? That can never be because the entire tone of scripture about work is you must get your hands working at all cost. You must get your hands working. You know, that's 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. Paul is clear about people who are busy bodies and are doing nothing. Now if we take that rule seriously that your hands must be working you know and indeed you are unemployed you find a situation where it means you must either interning or your job is looking for a job. I think it's both actually you shouldn't be saying my job is looking for a job and I'm not doing anything. That's not the way to work. I mean even if you have to intend, you have to just tag along with someone. You spend maybe half the time doing this, half the other time doing that. God's word encourages us to hold what we do naturally as part of his assignment to us for us to carry out and fulfill. So you need to ensure that you are busy doing something. You need to ensure that you you are not doing nothing. If you're looking for a job, still find something to do. Find a way to do something. Whatever it is, you just have to lay your hands on something. And do not be a busy body doing nothing. So as you spend part of your time looking for a job, spend part of the time doing something. Even if it's interning for free somewhere, don't be idle. That's the important part. Don't be idle. You must be working. Now he said, "But if you can be made free, rather use it." Notice if you can be made free, this is not a matter of just personal valution, but is more of opportunity. We'll get to where your personal valution and desires come into play. your natural assignment because they actually do play a huge role in your natural assignment, right? But the first rule in natural assignment is where you find yourself at the start. The second rule is if you have opportunity to be better made free, it can mean different things in our own context today or it means an opportunity to be better then we should use it. So I'll catch you on the next one where we keep talking about pursuing God's purpose. What do I do now that I've realized God's purpose for my life? Start where you are and we move forward from there next time. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, [music] visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your [music] questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. [music] Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and [music] keep walking in his purpose.
