---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfil God's Purpose (Part 6)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NUL2AN3zrYI
---

# How to Fulfil God's Purpose (Part 6)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back again to the Plleos podcast. It's your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Saying things have been established and we are building on them. We have established what God's purpose is. We have seen that God's purpose for your life is sunship. We've seen that from Ephesians 1:9, Ephesians 15, etc. Then we have seen what sunship means particularly from Romans 8:15-17. Romans 8:15-17 makes it clear that what we have received are the spirit of sunship which he calls adoption. We have seen why adoption is not the best word because we are not adopted children of God. The term adoption is with the idea of a position that we occupy. But the best word we can just use is sunship. So we have received the spirit of sunship whereby we cry aba father. And the fact that we do cry aba father should make it clear to us that it's not a case that we are not natural children of god. We are natural children of god. That's why I said that spirit gives this witness or this evidence that we are children of god. And if children were hairs of God. Long and short, when you are a son of God, it's not a matter of the gender that you have. Being a son of God is not you have you are a male child. Rather, being a son of God is that you're a child of God who happens also to be an air of God. All right? So, male or female, we can say we are sons of God. You are a son of God. Galatians chapter 3 and verse 26, we say we are all sons of God by faith in Christ Jesus. Which means we are all children that are hairs by faith in Christ Jesus. And the next chapter will even open it up better which is Galatians 4 is going to explain it there on and on. So when you say God's purpose for your life is sunship you are saying that God has made you to be his child to be in fellowship with him to walk in his nature to walk in his character to have a devotional life with him and then partake in regular devotion with him. Regular devotion of him I should probably say you should partake in regular devotion of him and then you should walk in his nature and his character. Now the second part of sunship is being God us here and that one is very important because it brings to us the assignment part of the equation things that he has given us to do which means God owns things and he allotss them to people to fulfill. So it's like a very wealthy person having a lot of property and then the person allotss different things that they own to different people. Now Romans 8 will say we have a joint inheritance. So there's something we collectively own which is all of creation. But the scriptures will make clear that there is still the reality of individual inheritance or we could say individual assignments. So each and every one of us have individual assignments given onto us by God. Every single believer does. I like how 1 Corinthians 7:1 17 says it. It says as God has distributed to each one. So there is none of us that can say you don't have something particularly exclusively given to you by God. As God has distributed to each one as God has called each one. So let him walk. That word distributed is also as God has parted. There's what God has parted to you different from what he has parted to another person to do. And when we talk about God's distribution or patterning to each of us as individuals, it's of two things. There is a natural assignment he gives to us and then there is the spiritual assignment he gives to us. Now I hope you have listened to earlier episodes where we examine how we pursue God's purpose, how we pursue our natural assignments, how we pursue our spiritual assignments and you'll see how it unfolds. But right now we are focused on how to fulfill God's purpose. Because even if you know the journey of God's purpose, you need to know what it takes to actually get it done. So you can know this is how it unfolds. This is what you do first, then next, and this next, and this is the entire process. But are you even able to do it? How do you fulfill it? I've been using the example of someone told to carry two bags of cement. At least I'm going by Nigerian size. So, you're supposed to carry one on each on each hand. And you look at your stature, you look at your growth, you're like, "Boy, I can't do this yet. I need to get the growth required to be able to fulfill that assignment." And then you hit the gym or you get a personal trainer. You know the goals you have in mind. You must reach social points in strength, endurance, weights, blah blah blah to be able to do what you are meant to do. That's precisely how it is when we talk about how do we fulfill God's purpose. There is the required stature, the required growth that we ought to have that makes it possible to fulfill God's purpose. Now, the Lord Jesus was aware of that such that after redemption, he told the apostles as they get people saved, they need to disciple them to be able to walk in all that he has commanded them. And that disciplehip is what Paul will explain in Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 12 as perfecting of the saint. So you need to be perfected as a saint to be able to do God's purpose for your life. Now Ephesians 4 makes clear the exact point we need to get to in this perfecting in this training in this training to be able to do that which the Lord wants us to do. Ephesians 4:13 particularly makes it clear. It says till we all come to the unity of the faith the knowledge of the son of God. So do you notice till we all come to why did he say that? Because he must have mentioned a statement earlier about something is to be done unto a destination. That's why he's now telling you the destination in verse 13 till we all come to now in verse 12 he has said the leaders of the church are given for the perfecting of the saints. And that word perfecting there is the word in the Greek katismos. Katismos means to bring something to an end. There is two words or there are two words there. There's the word kata that means downward and there's the other word at which is about an end point or a completion point. So the leaders of the church are to bring you as a saint to a completion point and that completion point that end point that goal that God has is what verse 13 is telling us about. It says till we all come to so the goal is the unity of the faith the knowledge of the son of God. Then he says the perfect man the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So we are seeing four descriptions of the end points God wants us to arrive at. But then I don't know if you noticed and I've been pointing that out that those four descriptions are really in two categories. The first two descriptions are talking about knowledge. So it says unity of the faith. Faith is the act of believing or that which is believed, the message believed. Right? So unity of the faith and unity there is the word for all summoners. I've had to point out that unity is not unity of the faith is not the agreement of different denominations or Christian bodies on the same thing. That's not what it is. Now maybe you could say coming to the unity of the faith. If we imagine every Christian comes to unity of the faith, yeah, that would be beautiful because all of us are going to now be agreed. But the term unity of the faith itself is not about agreement. Now, unity of the spirit is about is reflective of an agreement amongst Christians in the sense that unity of the spirit means you people have the same spirit. So relate with the unity of the spirit. Relate with each other recognizing that you have the same spirit. And that's in Ephesians 4:3. Now the goal in Ephesians 4:3 was not doctrinal. The golden ephians 4:3 was about the unity that we share across gender, race, class. So the kind of class distinctions we see in the society is saying we shouldn't have that amongst you as believers. You share the unity of the spirit. There's a way maybe the society might regard a male different from a female. I think it's changing much in our world today. Then there's a way the society might regard the rich as against the poor. And in the church is saying you shouldn't act that way. Everybody should function with loneliness mind you know bearing with one another in love. There's a way we might regard people based on their race. Some people will be discriminating of people from a certain race or of a certain ethnicity. Now in the church because we recognize that we have the same spirit unity of the spirit then we relate with oneness. Now in the case of unity of the faith he's talking about the wholesomeness of the message the entirety of the message that we have believed the unity of the faith. So till we all come to that old son message which he calls the knowledge of the son of god and he's saying that the implication of that is we are going to arrive at the perfect man. I must point out at this point less you misunderstand Paul that arriving at the unity of the faith and knowledge of son of God you know having that knowledge of God's word is not equal to necessarily having spiritual growth knowledge is prerequisite to growth but knowledge itself is not growth something is done with knowledge that makes for growth but without the knowledge you cannot have the growth you're supposed to have now is bundling Paul in this text is bundling everything into one, right? He's bundling everything into one. He takes the unity of the faith. He bundles it together with the perfect man, the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. But when we read the entirety of his of his letters, we're going to find out that there's a real distinction. You could have your mind enlightened by the knowledge of God's word and yet still be found wanting in growth. And this is a real thing that is part of what we're addressing at this phase of our study, how to fulfill God's purpose. So, we fulfill God's purpose. I'm trying to make a point that we fulfill God's purpose dependent on the state of our mind because everything said in verse 13 is about our mind. Knowledge of the son of God, unity of the faith, this is a matter of your mind. This is not a matter of your nature. Okay? We're talking about your nature. We're talking about the state of your spirit. And I'm going to make certain points here today. I hope you're going to get now the the perfect man and the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. They are also matters of the mind. You remember in the last episode I took you to verse 17 to 19 and I showed you that all the emphasis Paul made were about the mind. So he says don't walk as the rest of the Gentiles do. Don't walk as people that have not believed the gospel do. Don't walk as people that don't have the life and the nature of God do. And they are walking that way because of their mind. The futility of their mind. Their understanding is darkened. They are alienated from the life of God. So it shows us their nature is not what it should be. But the real reason why their walk is that way is their mind. Which means even if your nature is changed as a believer and your mind remains the same, your walk is going to be just like theirs. Right? So we are seeing three things here. There is your nature, there is your mind, and then there is your walk. So he's saying their nature is without the life of God. Yours, you have the life of God now. But then your mind might be just like theirs, which is precisely why the Lord has given the church to teach you, to train you, to correct you, to groom you, to build you, to give you that mind that helps you to fulfill God's purpose. So you need to walk differently. Your mind should not be empty. You shouldn't have a futile mind. That is not empty of truth. We should say your mind should not be darkened. Which means the light of truth should be shining on your mind. Right? He says because of the ignorance that is in them. So there's a particular knowledge or truth again that should be in them that is not in them. And he calls that the blindness of their heart. So all of these are showing us something that should be present is not present. The question we should ask is what is this Paul is saying should be present on their mind that is not present on their mind that is affecting their growth and therefore their work which affects the fulfillment of God's purpose. Now verse 20 to 24 is going to show us what ought to be on our mind that if absent is going to affect our growth and our work. So verse 20 says, "You have not so learned Christ." That means you have not learned Christ such as to be lacking all these things that they lack such as to have contrary emotions, contrary knowledge, contrary actions like they do. You have not so learned Christ. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him, I want you to notice this as the truth is in Jesus. So he simply sums up what should be on our mind in one word, the truth. You remember when we started the podcast, we started looking at the place of the gospel in our life, which is the place of truth. And at that point our focus was on salvific truth or the truth of salvation. But the gospel's claim to being truth transcends just the ways of salvation. It claims to be truth concerning our walk concerning our life. Right? You have not so learned Christ if indeed you have heard him. You have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. You remember Ephesians 4 and verse 15 says the leaders of the church are to speak the truth in love so that you are going to grow into Christ. So he says what is on their mind or what is lacking on their mind the people who do not have the life of God is the truth. What truth exactly is he talking about? Now there's a lot in that truth because he said there is the unity of the faith but you seem focused on one thing which is going to be critical to how we fulfill God's purpose. Look at verse 22 that you put off concerning your former conversation the old man. So the main thing on your mind you need to change is what you think about yourself. The old man which grows corrupt according to deceitful lust. Luke 23. and be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on the new man. What you think about yourself which is created after God in righteousness and holiness of truth. So the core truth that is meant to be on our mind is the truth about who we are. That we are no longer that old man alienated from the life of God, but we are that new man having the very righteousness and holiness of God so that we can walk in the reality of that new man that we are. We are reaching a high point on this issue of how we fulfill God's purpose and I trust you are seeing the point is about the state of your mind. We're going to continue in the next episode on that. Thank you. &gt;&gt;
