---
title: Developing the Inner Man (Part 4)
date: 2026-03-21
type: podcast
show: Pleros Podcast
---
Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it.

&gt;&gt; All right, welcome back to the Polaros podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We are looking at developing the in man and I want us to jump right into it because we have already established a lot of things. We've seen that there is this part of our mind that is the hidden man or inner man and it is the true determinant of the fulfillment of God's purpose for our life. The condition of a person's inner man or hidden man determines whether they do all that the Lord wants them to do.

So it's beyond who you are in Christ to do or you're supposed to do as important as who you are in Christ is. It is a matter or a question of the condition of your Eden man or your inner man, the state of your hearts that we are going to see your conduct flow from and the results thereof. And this is no strange teaching because it is something taught by the apostles repeatedly as well as by the Lord Jesus. And we are seeing it rooted all the way in the Old Testament text.

## Adorning and Strengthening the Inner Man

Now for example, Peter says you are to adorn the hidden man. Paul says you are to strengthen the hen man. Paul says you need to put off and put on so that you renew the spirit of the mind. You know Paul also says in Ephesians 4, you are to come to the perfect man. And that cannot be you have to come to the perfect man relative to your outward man that is your body because the church is not responsible for not the primary work of the church to see to your to the development of your physical body. They are to instruct on that you as well as you can I mean as you can well tell because the church um is concerned for our life who you will see to your fitness even your health as well. Of course, except we are talking about supernatural healing, something we'll see later. Okay.

So, all of this shows us that there's this part of us which is not our outward man. Neither is it our inward man by which I mean our spirit, the spirit man. It's rather talking about our mind. All right? That we are supposed to see this growth in. Okay. The Lord Jesus will talk about this as a part of our heart where he says out of the abundance of your heart. So there's a part of our heart that is like a bank like a deposit bank. Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.

He said a good man out of the good treasures of his heart. And he's saying depending on what he has deposited in his heart. So and the other text had said make the tree good. Still talking about this place in your heart and then your fruit will be good or else make the tree bad and your fruit will be bad. So whatever you have done to this part of your heart, this deposit part of your heart, what you have put there or as I can say what you have reinforced on your heart, you know, you have reinforced on your heart is what is going to determine the things that you do.

Matthew 15 will also pick up on the same concern in Matthew 12. Matthew 15 will pick up on it and it will show us um Matthew 15 will do that and it will show us that it is not what goes into our mouth that defiles. That means what we physically consume that defiles but rather what goes into our hearts which is more of what we expose our our hearts to what we are seeing hearing you know the information that we expose our heart to that determines what we do.

## The Seed and Tree Concept in Scripture

Having said that much, we said this tree fruit concept which is essentially a seed concept is rooted all the way in the beginning of scripture and is extremely valuable to help us know what part of the heart the Lord is speaking about. Also valuable to let us know how we develop this hidden man, this deposit bank, this inner man of our heart. Okay, how do we develop it? I know we have done a study faith stand that already answers that. But there's a reason why I'm going this route and when I get when we get there you'll see is to put emphasis on a particular part of our of us you know as humans that is the determinant of the development of this of this area in our heart. All right.

Now in Genesis 1 and 11 we see the seed concept explained where we are told that the seed on in the earth would bring forth fruit trees which will bring forth fruit. So it starts with the seed, it leads to the tree and then it leads to the fruit. So when we get to Genesis 2 and we are told about the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil, which we know definitely are not physical trees because knowledge is a thing of the mind. Knowledge is not a physical thing.

You know, now let's let's think about it this way. Imagine a world that exists with no entity that has a mind. So we are saying no no no humans particularly but we could also extend it to nonhuman animals. So but there is just a physical world. There's just the physics and the chemistry of that world. There is no biology. So that world does exist. Now other than God there is no other entity that is a witness to that world. Okay.

## Knowledge as a Thing of the Mind

So there is no mind present to know about the physics and chemistry that does exist in that world. There is no mind present. There is no biology present. Now of course if there there are other minds like um nonhuman animals. They would know the physical reality of that word but they would be unable to think metaphysically about that word because it is humans that have this recognized particular let me use that word recognized capacity to think beyond the physical too to not only witness the physical and know how to relate with it but to ask why is this thing here to think metaphysically which you can only know someone is thinking metaphysically via language the abstraction of language but I don't want to go that route it's something we have seen at the beginning of the podcast is also something we look at in several other teachings as well, which is one of the arguments for the spiritual nature of humans exclusively. All right?

Now, but if there is no mind at all in a world that exists, maybe there's just the physics and chemistry, there's no mind at all. There is still truth there. The physics and the chemistry of that world exist, but there's nobody to witness it. So, there is no knowledge except for the creator of that world. So knowledge is a mind thing. There can be reality and there is no knowledge. So the moment you are talking about knowledge, you are saying there is a mind at play.

So I'm if we account for trees as non-living things which they are not but if we do account for them as such then there could as well be trees physically but there's nobody to say oh there is this tree this physical tree. Knowledge is a thing of the mind. So the moment we see a tree that the tree is about knowledge it is not a physical tree number one. Number two is a tree that can only exist on the mind because knowledge is about the mind. So it's a figurative description what is going on here in Genesis chapter 2. It's a figurative description of things that are on the mind of man. And the idea of a tree that is of the mind is not strange because the Lord spoke about it. Make the tree of your heart good and your fruit to be good or make the tree of your heart bad and your fruit to be bad.

## Two Seeds Planted on Man's Heart

Now what we are seeing here when we say these trees were planted in the garden means there were seeds planted on man's heart from which he was going to decide whether is on the side of God's purpose or he is not. There were trees there were seeds planted on man's heart. If we are seeing a tree of life a tree comes from a seed. Genesis 1:11 has established that then a seed it was planted on man's heart bringing forth a tree of life then man can choose to partake of it. But also because man has free will. I don't want to make this complex. There is also a seed planted on man's heart contrary to the first seed. So there's another seed if you understand what I mean.

So there is this let's let me put it this way. Let's assume man was made and you know God tells man the truth about the world you are in is that it was created by me. All right? is that this world was created by me and I created this world for this purpose and I want you to agree to it accept it for yourself which don't forget that's faith right to agree to it and accept it so that you can function in the reason why I made this world if man has no free will there won't be an automatic fact that well I don't need to accept this and this may not be true but if man does have free will then immediately he hears that he also can say I'm I'm sure this is true I need to consider it and that is the beginning of another seed which is the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Right?

So there's another seed that could this really be so. So we are saying that there are two seeds on man's heart at the beginning. The seed that is planted by God and the seed of what is contrary to that. Now I know one of the texts that does a good job you know of explaining this is the book of proverbs. The book of Proverbs is like the is like a king teaching his son the law of the Lord which is part of his responsibility. He's teaching his son the law of the Lord which for for the Jews was the first five books particularly. So the first by five book for sorry which for the Jews at the time was the first five books particularly and the first books were like their own cannon you know the pentatuk the Torah the law of Moses and so that entire um that entire framework is what they were meant to teach and if that is the case and he's speaking to his son he's going to do a lot of explaining of the things we find in Genesis to Deuteronomy so I want us to go to proverbs which is the text that clearly explains what the tree of life and tree of knowledge of good and evil is. We could still infer just looking at that text, but we are already better served by looking at proverbs since it has spelt it out explicitly.

## Wisdom is a Tree of Life

In Proverbs 3 and:e 13, the wise man said, "Appy is the man who finds wisdom and the man who gains understanding." Don't forget, we are still looking at the issue of tree of life and tree of knowledge of good and evil. We just want to see what exactly is this. Appe is the man who finds wisdom and the man who gains understanding. Our proceeds are better than the prophets of silver. So he's saying the proceeds of wisdom and understanding are better than the profits of silver.

Now so consistently this her is talking about wisdom and understanding. So anywhere you see her or she is talking about wisd wisdom and understanding. just replace it in your mind as we keep reading or sometimes I might just use the word wisdom to speak of it. Proverbs 3:13 again and I'm reading all the way to verse 18. App is the man who finds wisdom, the man who gains understanding for our proceeds wisdom proceeds are better than the profits of silver and again than fine gold. She wisdom is more precious than rubies and all the things you may desire cannot compare with our wisdom. Length of days are in wisdom's right hand and in wisdom's left hand are riches and honor. Our ways are ways of pleasantness and all our parts are peace. So wisdom's ways are ways of pleasantness. All our parts are peace. Now verse 18, she wisdom is a tree of life to those who take hold of her and appear all who retain her wisdom.

So there was the understanding of the tree of life that came up a couple of times in the book of proverbs. And what they reckon the tree of life to be is wisdom or understanding. Oh now at this point take let's take a pause and and look at another text in the book of proverbs. What is wisdom in proverbs 23 and in verse 23.

## The Seed of Wisdom is Truth

So we are trying to see what was this tree what seed was planted that brought about the tree of life. Wisdom is what is called the tree. But the tree wisdom must have a seed. What is the seed of wisdom? What was planted that brought about the tree called wisdom from which man can partake of that and have life? The tree of life like the tree of orange. So there's a seed of orange planted brings the tree of orange gives us the fruit of orange that we now eat and partake of. Don't forget God said of all the trees you may eat, but of a tree of knowledge of good and evil you won't eat. So there's the tree we are meant to eat of the fruit of that tree. But what is the seed that brought about the tree of wisdom? And we are supposed to eat the fruits of the tree. And we're also going to see how do we eat it.

Now, Proverbs 23:23, in Proverbs 23:23, the wise man said, "Buy the truth and do not sell wisdom, instruction, and understanding." What it does here is an equating of the truth that you buy and what you can now sell. If you notice that the word it and also are italicized. Buy the truth and do not sell. Wisdom, instruction, and understanding. The word it as well as also are italicized. I've explained that before in earlier episodes that when you see such italicized words they are um they are a pointer to they the translation the translators from the Hebrew or Greek to English added them believing that it can help our understanding and it does a lot of times but they left them in Italy so that you can make the judgments yourself. So in this case we see the word buy the truth and do not sell wisdom, instruction and understanding.

When you have bought the truth, what do you have in your hands? Wisdom, instruction, understanding. So don't sell it. The truth you just bought. And how did you get that truth? Instruction must have happened. Someone must have instructed you, must have told you something. Then you understood it yourself, you know. And therefore that is what wisdom is. So let us put it this way. The seed of wisdom is truth. So what did God tell man at the beginning leading to the what seed did God swaz leading to the tree of life? God told man the truth. We can say the truth of his existence. This is why you are here. This is what it's all about. He told him the truth.

Then what happened? He thinks about it. He collects that instruction. Has understanding. He has wisdom. This is what I am here for. But he may get what God has told him and not agree with it. Therefore, we can have the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And he now has to decide is this really so. Am I really created for God's purpose or am I just here as my own God? which you see in Genesis Genesis 3, sorry, is what is is what he was starting to consider. Going to continue in the next one. So, we're going to see what the tree of knowledge of good and evil is and how we eat of this tree. Thank you.

&gt;&gt; We trust you are blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.