---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 6)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tVyuPNzKC7E
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 6)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome to another episode of the Player Rose podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We'll be looking at the mind of man and we are doing that on the foundation of our study on God's purpose. We have seen that God's purpose is sunship to be God's child and to be God's hairs which means we are called to a life of fellowship with God where we walk in his nature and character as well as a life of pursuit of his assignments given to us. us. That's what we do with our lives daily. Having said that we presently are proceeding in our study to having looked at that we went on to see the road map of God's purpose. God's purpose is sunship. Then we saw the road map of his purpose um one after the other. We saw we are called to a daily life of devotion. We saw how our natural assignment should unfold and we have seen how our spiritual assignment should unfold. But having the road map doesn't mean we have what it takes to walk the path to run the race, the strength, the fitness, the endurance, the discipline. That's a matter of growth, the stature that we ought to have for that. And that growth is what the Lord accounted for when he called for disciplehip. If salvation was the end in all of the Christian faith, then there will be no need for disciplehip. Even worse is when we think, well, now that I'm saved, I need to avoid my whole goal is I need to just make heaven. It can be counterproductive if we think that way. It is well intentioned and it is understandable that we think that way. It's even a very noble thought but it is surely counterproductive that way because it will mean that if our salvation is all about its preservation we should really right after salvation be looking for a way to leave the earth immediately. We shouldn't be taking such risks. Now you might be bothered that well that will probably like suicide and you don't want to do that. Yeah sure then you'll probably just probably you probably be praying that something like that happen so that you don't have to gamble at all with your salvation. What then is the essence of our life after salvation? It is the essence of our life in the first place. God's purpose is the reason why there's even a mess. The rejection of his purpose. So we must understand that the Lord in instructing disciplehip for those who are saved is not doing so for the preservation of salvation. No, he's doing that for the pursuit of his purpose for people to walk in the very essence for which he made us. So having said that it's important for us to see that that disciplehip is for growth and that growth happens on our mind. So we have spend a lot of time talking about the role of our mind when it comes to our growth. We have seen a couple of things. We've seen how Ephesians 4 emphasizes the state of our mind. He said we shouldn't walk as the people who do not believe the gospel do which is in this contrary condition of their minds. Right? And in talking about that contrary state of mind that they have, we pointed out in Ephesians 2 that we had that exact same mind and salvation did not change our mind except for the repentance from dependence on ourselves. You know, salvation did not change our mind um in terms of the information we believed, the struggles that were there etc. Please this is okay. What happened to your mind at salvation? Is repentance about the condition of the world? Like I need salvation. I can't do this myself and I believe Jesus for it and you are saved. It gives you a disposition towards sin where you now recognize that sin is wrong. When it happens, your heart bleeds in repentance about it for you to grow and do better. Right? So but I mean the fundamental belief systems and structures that you have the world view that you had the tendencies even habits that you had are not automatically changed by sal salvation these are things that only only disciplehip would address. So important. So he's saying don't walk in this mind that the rest of the Gentiles are working. But if you were reading the material all the way from the beginning, Ephesians, you'd have noticed [snorts] in Ephesians 2 that oh boy, we also had that same mind. And that's why he's saying we shouldn't walk in it because the church ought to change our mind by the unity of the faith. Are you guessing this? So if you understand that then you start to realize that it seems the mind is the issue in this Christian walk and you're right and to make that further clear we saw that the spirit is not the issue. Our nature is not the issue. Right? We took some time to emphasize our nature cannot be improved upon. Our nature is in a perfect complete divine state. We are partakers of the divine nature. We are one spirit with the lord. We are we are uh we are complete in him. our spirit is entirely fused within such that we have the same witness. Our spirit and God's spirit given to us have the exact same witness. Okay. So at this point it starts to become um you know there start to be a lot of questions like okay now I'm saved but my mind wasn't fixed but my spirit is entirely fixed. What's going on? My body also didn't change when I got saved. Right? So what's going on? What do I need to do? What's playing out here? And there are two texts I want you to have in mind at this juncture. First is 1 Thessalonians 5:23 that says the whole of our humanity. Let's let's go there. It says is spiritual and body. 1 Thessalonians 5 and23. He told us that may your whole spirit, soul, and body 1:23. And now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. That first word completely means all the way to the end. That means it preserves you through to the end including our bodies. Like if we live out our lives and our bodies then you know go on back to the earth it is still preserved till the end which is by the spirit. The prayer is sort of an affirmation anyways that and I may your whole spirit, soul and body be preserved blame blameless until sorry be preserved blameless at the coming of our lord Jesus. He who calls you is faithful and he will do it. So there's the understanding that it is part of God's program to restore our body. The manner of the restoration is matter of debate here and there but we are not getting into that right now. So for now he's saying that the whole of our humanity or the whole of any man is spirit, soul and body. I also said you might have to pause the understanding of soul in this text as the mind is a fantastic explanation that has been helpful from um many um you know excellent teachers of God's word. However, it might be problematic fitting that understanding of soul into every instance where we see the word soul. So sometime later in this study of mind of man, we would reexamine how the scriptures uses the word soul. Even how the scriptures use the word spirit because not every time we see spirit is talking about uh the it's talking about the nature of one spirit like the spirit like the in comparison to body. One instance we'll get to that will lead us to this study is Ephesians 4:23 where he said you should be renewed in the spirit of your mind. That's not talking about your spirit as nature. But uses the exact same word spirit. When we get there we're going to examine what that means. Now I said I want you to put two texts in mind. Now that we know the growth happens in our spirits happens on our minds. Our spirits are in a complete perfect state. We need to understand man wholesomely. That means there's so much going on with man that if we don't put it in the right perspective, we'll be confused about why we are walking the way we are and why we are not walking sometimes as we want to. The second text we have in mind other than 1 Thessalonians 5:23 is 2 Corinthians 4:16. And you could read it all the way down. There's so much of back. 2 Corinthians 14:16, 2 Corinthians 5:1, 2 Corinthians 5:16 and 17, etc. In 2 Corinthians 4:16, it says, "Therefore, we do not lose heart, even though our outward man is perishing, yet our inward man is being renewed day by day." Even though our outward man is perishing, yet our inward man is being renewed day by day. day. Now, in this text, he's describing man wholesomely as outward and inward. I mean, you it couldn't be more than that. Like if there's a given context of any entity and you say inside and outside that thing, you have covered the basis. You have covered the entire scope of the thing in question. So [snorts] they say outside your phone and inside your phone. Outside your car and inside your car. What else could we use? Um outside your house and inside your house. That's all there is to your house. That's all there is to your car. That's all there is to your phone. So is a mode of description. I mean there are many modes of description we could take. We could talk about your car or your house in parts and say there are social rules and all of that and we're talking about it in part but we could talk about it from this perspective of in and out. And it describes humanity wholesomely in this case with that in and out concept. There is the inward man and there is the outward man. And it happens that it happens that the outward man is perishing but the inward man is renewed or unchanging or it remains fresh day by day. All right. There's no doubt that the outward man is talking about our body. body. The postex helps also the pretext helps to some degree. It was talking about the body. It was pointing to the resurrection of our body just after the Lord Jesus kind in the pretext. The post tax also continues in that light that the light afflictions which is the corruption or the mortality of our body is for a moment and it is working out a far more exceeding eternal weight of glory which is the reality of our spirits playing out in our body. We have a glorified body. So we don't look at the things that are seen but are the things that are not seen. Our hearts are focused on what will happen eventually. Right? So in this sense we have this outward man and we have this inward man. So man is outward and inward man. man is spirit, soul and body. And in 2 Corinthians 5:16, it said our judgment should be based more on the inward man than the outward man. When we look at the outward man, we tend to give certain judgments of people. Usually judgments of gender, judgments of race and also we could attach judgment of class, social class, we tend to do that. But he's saying there is a spiritual judgment that is after the inward man. And that's how we should judge people. And that's how we should judge actually ourself first. If any man is in Christ a new creation, stop being overwhelmed with the thought of I am female or I am male or you know some people are so trained in their minds to think of themselves more from the outward man than from the inward man. don't think I'm a new creation, right? is either oh the power of so so culture let me just use Euroba since I'm Euroba you know Euroba men are this or maybe Nigerian men yeah that one is very common so Nigerians are like this and yeah you know carry last so you are thinking about yourself from your outward mind I mean it's nice when what you are saying is good even though it could be polarizing unduly but it could get bad very soon when it starts getting negative you should think of yourself more from your other. I'm not saying ignore who you are outwardly. That makes no sense. You need to know your male if you are, you're female if you are and act accordingly. That's scriptural, you know. Um particularly when we talking about your sexualism, right? So, but we're speaking to how we should function as believers. We must think from the perspective of the inward man more than the outward man. and know where distinctions of the outward man are not meant to be unnecessarily made. Are not meant to be pushed too far. There are times where people push um let me leave that. It's something we'll look at later. So where based on our judgments in the outward man, we start to have prejudices either relative to our gender, relative to our race or relative to our class. This is something the reality of doing the word man ought to take away from us. We should be able to think properly about gender, race and class in the light of the new creation. So if you have made the progress of seeing that you are this inward man and this outward man and that you are at the core the inward man but you wholesomely have an inward and outward man then you have made real progress. Now, we ended up and I'm going to kind of end there again saying that we are a body with a brain and also a spirit with a mind. And this connection between body with brain and spirit with mind is something I want to build on from this episode into the next one. You'll find that the Lord gave us a very important parable. No, could we call it a parable? A an account which was the account of the rich man and Lazarus. It's debatable that it's just an illustration. It seems he's not uses the name Lazarus. He seems to be speaking to specific instances. And that account can help us to appreciate our discussion of the inward man and outward man. How one perishes, how the other is being renewed, and what the implications are for these two parts of our humanity, but make the whole of who we are. We're going to start to see that from the next episode. Amen. where we appreciate better the place of the inward man as spirit with a mind just like the outward man is body with a brain. See you on that one.
