---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 12)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w6iWSPtOl4s
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 12)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome to another episode of the Plearos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We're looking at how to fulfill God's purpose. This will be the last one. We'll move from here to the mind of man which is still part of how you fulfill God's purpose but so that we can explore that subject matter better and then we'll tie it back later into God's purpose you know. So for now I believe we have overgged the us of what God's purpose is. We have seen that God's purpose is sunship. It means to be God's child and to be God's hair. As is here you have a natural assignment and a spiritual assignment. We have seen that the way we carry out God's purpose is by daily life of devotion and fellowship with the father that helps our growth and walk in his nature and character but also causes us to then pursue our natural and our spiritual assignments with maximum productivity. All right. So having sorted all of that out we have been looking at how to fulfill God's purpose. And you could just say we fulfill God's purpose by growth. Another thing you could say from the last episode is we fulfill God's purpose by transformation by the transformation of our mind which happens by the renewing of our mind and like there are so many things going on on our minds you know so there is knowing or knowledge on our mind there is renewing on our mind there's presenting on our mind there's reckoning on our mind yet there's transformation on our mind and there can be confirmation you know conforming to the world on our mind as well we must therefore study the mind of and scripturally to see how it affects our walk in God's purpose. But for now, I'll just try to recap some things. We're going to James today to see some very important things and that will lead us into our next study, which is the mind of man. Um, I hope you recall that the only way we can free God's purpose is by disciplehip or preparation. Right? The Lord said, "Go get them saved and then disciple them." So implies that disciplehip is required needed for us to fulfill God's purpose for our lives. Then we also saw um read Luke 12 and verse 4748 he said he that knows my will and does not prepare and do according to my will be with many stripes. So knowing God's will is not enough. There is the very critical need of preparation to be able to do God's will. If you jump preparation phase relative to God's will, you will likely do it in the flesh and may even fail at it. And if you succeed at this, I can guarantee that you did not succeed. You likely walked in covetousness and idolatry. There is no no shortcuts. There is no escaping the necessity of disciplehip. There is no substitute for disciplehip. There is nothing that will make you walk in the spirit other than disciplehip. The disciplehip of God's word, the training of God's word, the continuous training of God's word. I hope you remember we talked about the fact that disciplehip should be seen in two ways as foundational and as ongoing. It's just like education of all kinds. So there's foundational education for every human being early stage. But yet there should be ongoing education. In fact, in professional courses, you have the foundational education and then there's ongoing education that you are still and training and exposure that you are still going through. And really, that's how it is in the field. This I'm not this is not even theory. This is directly stated in God's word. This is um something Peter said himself. Peter was talking to his disciples in second Peter 1:2. He said um I will not be negligent to put you in reminder. This is ongoing. That means it's not fresh. It's not foundational is reminder. This is ongoing education. Right? I will not be negligent to put you out of these things even though you know and you established in the present truth. So knowing already the truth does not excuse you from a continuous reminder of the truth. Right? You find Paul having the same thoughts when he spoke to or expressing the same thoughts actually when he spoke to Timothy in um 2 Timothy chapter 3 and in verse 14. So in 23:14 he told him um it says therefore continue. Yeah. Continue in what you have learned and have been assured of. Did you get that? He said continue what you have learned and have been assured of. And the tense there was very clear. He wasn't say continue what you are learning. He said you have already learned it but you need to continue it. Even the Pllearos perfecting course, our desire is to take you through the entire teaching of God's word in a way that you can say now I have the framework of doctrinal understanding that God expects me to have. But you need an ongoing education, disciplehip, training, learning. We all do. I do. You do. Paul did. Timothy did. Peter did. His disciples did. We all do. Right? So um the moment you stop like continuously learning God's word, you are going to walk in the flesh, there's no escaping it because the world is also giving you an ongoing education, an ongoing disciplehip. So we cannot escape the necessity of the disciplehip bring which brings in the um the need of the of the church. But okay, so let's just get back to what we say. So we need disciplehip. Paul calls that the perfecting of the saints. He says that perfecting catismos is to bring us to an end point in knowledge and in stature. Ephesians 4:13 will come to your fin of God, perfect man, measure of stature, fullness of Christ. Right? We have seen the knowledge part of the equation and we said the knowledge does not make for the stature though the knowledge is prerequisite for the stature. Having knowledge is enlightenment but having knowledge is not growth or transformation truly. It's so important that you know I mean you can't even grow or have any stat or have any transformation or any other such thing if you don't even know. But there is the lie that knowledge is growth or transformation. I don't think anyone needs to be told this because it's something you can prove yourself. It is just not true. And it to be fully to say uh well I know and you are looking at your work seeing that it doesn't match what you know and you don't find out what is the missing link between your knowledge and your work which is reckoning as we have said now it's the reconing of who you are the presenting of who you are you know etc right now you recall that we saw that from Romans 6 Paul says you guys know this but you need to recon it you need to present yourself so that sin will not in your mortal body so Without [snorts] the recording and the presenting, you'll find yourself walking um in a different way. In Romans 12, he use that word presenting again. You need to present yourselves, your persons as a living sacrifice, holy acceptable unto God. This is your reasonable worship. Verse two will say that and be not conformed. That means this presenting of yourself is what prevents your confirmation. So be not conformed to the world, but be transformed. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. brothers and sisters that transformation is so important you know and I pointed out that renewing your mind there is not fresh knowledge it presupposes knowledge don't forget but renewing your mind is this continuous refreshing on your mind of who you are like every time you reckon it's a refreshing a renewing of your mind that transforms you okay um let's jump into James so that James will open it up better to us and we'll be able to come back to this text as well so but for now transformation and growth we can say happens by knowledge and reckoning who we are. It happens by knowledge and standing beside who we are. You understand? To present is to stand beside. So it happens by knowledge and standing beside who we are. I like us to go to James and chapter 1 and verse 21. James 1 and 21. James speaking here he said therefore lay aside all filiness and overflow of wickedness and receive with me weakness the grafted word which is able to save your souls all right so James said God's word he's talking to believers don't forget so he says you should receive God's word is able to save your souls um soul is a very um what's the word now is a very is a word that can morph in into different situations So soul is not necessarily mind. You know, for example, you see 3,000 souls were saved. You can't say 3,000. [sighs] I'm sorry. You can't say 3,000 minds were saved. Oh, I understand that. Like um the understanding that soul is mind is quite ingrained into very major circles in the church, the body of Christ. And it has been extremely helpful in explaining concept. But you might have noticed that when you're reading your Bible, you you come across instances where soul is used and you are trying to force it and fit it into the understanding that you have always had of soul as mind. And you are seeing an absurdity going on there that you cannot deny, right? Um like 3,000 souls were saved. That's 3,000 persons were saved. The word soul is just a very big word. When we get to mind of man which we are looking at next we will be unpacking the proper understanding of spirit as well as soul of man as much as we can on at this level. Soul can be any vital reality. Your mind can be called soul. Your spirit can be called soul. Yes, your spirit as well can be called soul. In fact um there are places where your very spirit is what's been called. So for example, his soul was not left in Hades. Talking about the Lord Jesus is not his mind was not left in Hades. He was talking about his person and without his body. So he's talking about his spiritual person was not left in Hades. So but let's just move on anyway. So he's able to save your souls. In this context, we might say your life. The word generally is used for life. Any state of vitality. So he's able to save your life. But the context here will not be salvation from sin. It's talking about our work to affect our work. Now James 1 and verse 22 it says be doers of the word not hearers only deceiving your selves be doers of the word not hearers only I love this text I can't even deny it because maybe because of like you could you I don't know whether it has happened to you but at least to me like where you are like you really want to do the word on a particular matter and then you [snorts] have the word on the matter like what is wrong what is missing what is Lord I'm like I want to get this part right and that part right. Could be your love walk, you know. Could be your love in righteousness. It could be the supernatural. What am I missing? I think I'm giving it everything like I'm hearing the word. I think I know who I am. What is this part that is missing? Yeah, it can be very annoying. And now look at what James says. He says, "But beers of only deceiving yourselves." You know that word deceiving. There is the word paralism. Do you remember lo? We saw that in Romans 6:11. It says recon yourself. That's lo. Now he's using paralleism. Par is not beside his par is a negative here as the context is. So it's aside that means you are reckoning aside yourself. So when a man is hearing the word but not doing it he's reckoning aside what he has heard. Oh I don't know if you got that he heard the word he has received the knowledge of something. Let's say the new creation which is exactly what he is centered on here. He has received the knowledge of the new creation but his reckoning is asises knowledge. So he could know that he's a new creation, but he's recognized his knowledge. Let me give you a very simple example. You could come to church one day and then the pastor's preaching and then he explains that you're a love being in Christ. And you're like, "What? I'm a love being in Christ." And he shows you all the text. He explains like love is your nature. It's natural to you to forgive and all of that. And you are palmed like my God, I walk in love. And you were so blessed. I mean, you were really blessed. There's no pretending here. You get out of the all. You are greeting people. You are so happy. You go home, you take a break, you rest, then someone offends you and you walk in the flesh in it, maybe in anger unjustifiably. There might be instances where we could speak of a righteous one. Like you you you just you you get out of law. Let's just put it that way. Why did you do that? Your knowledge has changed. You now know you're a Lord being in Christ. Why? Your reckoning has not changed commensurate to your knowledge. The same old reckoning you had is the same old reckoning that was at play at that instance. So you know you're a hearer. You now know the word but you reconside yourself. See 23. If anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer is like a man observing his natural face in the mirror. So he goes to the mirror. He looks at himself and look at what 24 says for he observes himself. That means he went to the mirror. He heard the word and he actually got what they were saying. He saw himself in the mirror. But what happens? He goes away and immediately he forgets the manner of man it was. So there's a particular act called going away that made him forget the manner of man it was. But this forgetfulness is not like if you ask him oh what were you taught? He's not going to remember. So this forgetfulness is not like it is out of his mind entirely. Is actually that is out of his consciousness. All right. Hold on. Verse 25 says and he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it. So this one looked into the mirror, he also got it. But we are told he did something. He continues in it. And he's not a forgetful error. That's the consequence of what? Continuing in it. But a doer of the work. Because he's not a forgetful. The consequence is is a do of the work. Then he's blessed. That's another consequence in what he does. So the dominus fall from one single action. He continues. But that word continues doesn't necessarily mean continue like he never leaves the mirror. As much as it means parameo which is the Greek it means to abide beside. Do you remember Parisi to stand beside? He's simply saying he's maintaining a faith stand on what he heard and therefore it makes him not forgetful which is not he can't remember what was told him but rather he's conscious and so he's doing it because he's conscious. Now that's the word I wanted to get us to really what makes for your growth is your consciousness. Your knowledge makes for your enlightenment what you know. But your growth is really defined by your consciousness or your reckoning. And we're going to get to that in subsequent episodes. See you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
