---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 15)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-h7O0OfUl3U
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 15)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome back to the Plyose podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And that's been defining everything we have been studying. We have been looking at the mind of man. And what led us to the mind of man is what we have seen about God's purpose. You know, we saw that God's purpose is sunship, which is that he wants us to be his child as well as his hairs. And if you recall, it means that we are called to a daily walk in fellowship with God as well as in his nature and character. Also, we are called to walk in our assignments, both our natural assignments and our spiritual assignments. Essentially, you can our entire life is to be lived for the Lord and that will be a very accurate way of thinking about it. So God's purpose is that we're living the entirety of our life. Everything we do from family to um our work to our um whether your work is career, business, academics, whatever it is to your spiritual assignments, church and outside church work of ministry. So we are living the entirety of our lives onto the Lord. And with that understanding of God's purpose for your life, you are able to walk the way he desires you do. But here's the issue. Like if you recognize that well God's purpose for me is this he wants me to fulfill that um it's one thing to have that knowledge another thing to know the road map to follow that is the path you have to take so you know you have to go this way make a turn this way um until you get to this point etc but there is still one more part of the equation to handle which is how do you bear the weight the burden of that purpose as you walk through the path of purpose because purpose is not just going on a journey He's actually in carrying certain weights or bearing certain burdens as you go on that journey. He has called you to carry out the natural assignment. He has called you to carry out a spiritual assignment which includes your family life, your disciplehip of your children where you desire and do have them. And that means you have very serious responsibilities that you cannot afford to ignore. So how do you bear this weight? How do you carry this burden as you um walk in God's purpose? And that's what brought us all the way to the study of disciplehip, perfectioning of the saints, what we called how to fulfill God's purpose, which eventually led us to the mind of man. Now we saw that disciplehip with the Lord called for or the perfection of the saints which is how Paul described it is what takes place on our mind because our spirit is entirely changed is our nature is one with Christ is one with God. There is nothing missing. There is nothing lacking in our spirit. We are entirely one with God in our spirit. But then there is the other part which is our mind. And there is the question of whether our mind has matched up in growth to the realities of our spirit or to whatever degree to be able to do all that God has called us to. So we have been focusing a lot on the mind of man because your mind is essentially your life. The state of your work is the state of your mind. The state of your life is the state of your mind. And even more important in looking at our mind is the fact that we all start out with some negativity. Let me put it that way. on our mind. That is before salvation there is no way your mind would have been without the flesh. There would have been some degree of the flesh, some degree of worldliness, some degree of contradiction of sin and death, whatever kind, whether even at the slightest, maybe just selfishness that would have been present on your mind for which reason you would have had to rely upon the work of the Lord Jesus for salvation and then to walk. The reason for that anyways is that we're in a world where there is the bondage of sin and death. Right? So as long as we are in this world, its influence imposes itself on the mind of man. And this means we have double work at salvation. At salvation, you are not just starting from a clean slate, adding in knowledge to your mind. You actually starting from a slate that has been a bit messed that you need to clean up and then you need to arrange properly. You now need to bring in the right things and put them there. So if you have that recognition that there are things to fix on my mind, you will be more intentional to understand the mind of man as it pertains to growth. So that you can know what to do that you may grow to fulfill God's purpose for your life. So all of that to say we have been looking at the mind of man. And at this juncture we have settled some things. We have settled the reality of man as inward man and outward man where we said we can describe man as a spirit with a mind as well as a body with a brain. And we saw that the mind of man has different aspects to it. The first aspect of the mind of man is reasoning. You know if someone speaks to you, you think about what they said. That's the first part of your mind. So there's reasoning that happens in the mind. The second part of the mind we saw is memory. So you could think about something you are undecided on it. So you're still thinking about it. So on the particular subject matter, you are still in the reasoning zone on your mind, you know. So just think about it that way. Um we used an example earlier. Let me probably look for another example I can use. Let's say I tell you that maybe like a phone. So maybe this phone can do this and do that and you have tried it before. The phone couldn't do that and so you are thinking is it really true what that person said. So that statement I made about a particular phone this phone can do such and such. You know it's on your mind. You are reasoning through it but you are undecided about it. Is it true or is it not? Because you're still thinking through on that matter. Now because you're really thinking on it and you are probably experimenting on it, you would have that knowledge which you are reasoning on go to your memory. Right? So there's the other aspect of your mind which is not just the immediate conscious reasoning that you have but your memory. And this is something that God's word reckons in that account in Luke 16 that the Lord spoke about the Lazarus and the rich man. We saw that Abraham told him remember that in your lifetime you enjoy such and such. So at the moment the man wasn't concerned about what he enjoyed at the moment what was on his the reasoning of his heart is how do I get out of this mess. So he says send Lazarus to cool my tongue. So you are seeing the first aspect of his mind what he's thinking about at that moment. But Abraham calls his attention to remember. So we are seeing memory is part of the mind of man right now. But memory now go back to let's go back to our example. So the phone can do that phone X can do Y. So you're still thinking about it, you're still working through it, you are still experimenting through it. It is is in your memory. You wake up the next day, you might start to reason about it again, you know, but then the moment you have concluded on the matter, maybe it eventually is proven to you that phone X does Y. Then at that point, it happens subtly as a matter of your will that you now have that conviction that phone X does Y. You agree. So there's this part of you called your wheel that agrees. The information is exposed to you and now you have made an agreement. Ah with this evidence I've seen I now know phone X does Y. I hope you're following now. So you have seen the third part of your mind. So we've spoken about the first part of your mind which is your reasoning. The second part of your mind is your memory. The third part of your mind now we are saying is your will, free will, consent etc. So at this point you can agree or you can disagree based on the evidence with different claims based on the evidence available to you. So you might be in a state where you do not yet understand that is a state but you can also be in a state of disagreements that based on the evidence I've seen I do not think that's the case. It could be that based on the evidence I have seen I think that is the case and then it could be that based on the evidence I've seen I'm not yet sure whether it is or it's not. I'm still working it out now. But that's all the third and the fourth part of the mind. So let's recap again. Number one, there's your reasoning. Number two, there is your memory. Number three, there's your will. Number four, there is your conviction. You now agree. So if you have agreed, it's now something that you have agreed with. So if someone asks you can phone X do Y. You're like yes. Someone says how. Now at that moment when you said yes, you probably were not thinking of the how. You might need to, you know, um you might need to think through a bit more. bring it back up on your mind, regurgitate what you had to go through to prove that and then you say, "Oh, so now you are drawing on your memory again and you're like, yeah, when you do this, do this, do this, then you'll see that it can do that." Now you are in a state of conviction such that if someone says something about that matter, you know what your conviction is. Phone X can do Y. You are sure. But you you don't have to have that at the moment detail of everything for your conviction to be your conviction. In fact, I don't know if that's happened to you like you go to church, you hear the word, you you have seen something. You have arrived at a conclusion and you remember the conclusion but if someone should ask you say that's the conclusion but I can't remember exactly what led to that but I'm very sure like that's the conclusion on that matter. So you can see that you have a conviction. You might even be holding on to the conviction and probably living by the conviction but you cannot explain the reasoning behind it um at that moment. So but conviction is a real part of our mind. That's what I want to say is a real separate issue that we have convictions we can hold on to and we arrived at them via reasoning for some people also via emotions and and the likes. But you are able to then um you are able to defend them if you choose to think back on on what led to those conclusions. But we have been talking about the last part of the mind which we said is very central and we start to talk about it from the last episode. We call that a state of reckoning of your mind. Let me put it that way. But maybe the best word we can use for this will be the word consciousness. Now there are two other aspects of the mind that quickly highlight before I come back to focus on this one. These other two are affected by this reckoning this presenting this consciousness that you have on your mind. And that's your emotion and um your conscience judgment. Now the word conscience and consciousness are very related. In fact to be honest they are the same. The word conscience conscious but it depends because conscience has like three levels to it we're going to talk about. So that's why I said that there's emotion and conscience judgment because consciousness itself is conscience and I would explain when we get there. So now let's explain the other two before we come back and focus all our attention on this very important part of the mind that we often ignore which is this um consciousness part of our mind. Now if your consciousness about yourself based on your background has been that I'm just this angry person even if you are told about the reality of who you now are in Christ which is that you are a love being in Christ and you know you now have this power to walk in love if you do not grow by reckoning yourself by presenting yourself as who you are. Now the only reason why you can do that is that it is indeed true that you are love being in Christ. If you were not saved and you are trying to affirm that it will be just willpower in motion and it could fail and you could be frustrated but on the strength of the reality of the new creation that confidence I'm a love being in Christ I'm not giving to aids I'm not giving to anger I'm not giving to selfishness and you are affirming who you are now if you don't do that you you just know you are a love been in Christ by conviction because it was explained to you reasoned about it and then you agreed based on evidence right that you are now this remember that journey so you were in church they were talking about it maybe even took a while maybe one week of teaching and eventually you're like boy from what they are saying it's true I'm dead to sin I'm alive to God I'm a new man in Christ I'm no longer in the flesh I'm now in the spirit you agree with that truth in God's word right you agree with that truth in God's word now if you have done that and you now have that conviction but your old remember your old reckoning your old consciousness which James will say he says let me say something it's so profound and I think it's something you should remember you don't do what you know you do what you're conscious of very important so that's what James meant when James says be doers of the word not eras only deceiving yourself which means reckoning as yourself or being conscious as yourself so you could have heard but you are not doing because what you heard and agreed with is not what your reckoning or your consciousness is. So you don't do what you know, you do what you're conscious of. Now you now know, you are even agree by what was shown you. You know, you have seen the evidence, you have reason through scripture and you agree that you're a new creation. You now know it. But what you're going to do in a given moment of um a given moment or circumstance of an happening is [snorts] what you're conscious of. And when we say you're conscious, it's not even like a present consciousness where it's more of a passive state of consciousness. the way you have always thought about yourself. So the person who has always thought themselves angry would react again in anger at that moment. Now remember we're talking about emotions earlier. So your emotions follow your consciousness. They don't follow your conviction. Even if you know you're a new creation and you expect the emotions of the new creation to follow your actions, that's not exactly what happened. What we are saying is important not just for character is also important even in the supernatural. You would not do what you know but that which you are in faith about. But the faith we're talking about and that's why we're going to be looking at faith stand when we are done with the mind of man is what you are conscious of. And this is so important. It's so fundamental. I would my time is running on me but I'd like to explain more the place of conscience consciousness how they interplay. You know we said reckoning presenting yourself is being conscious of it. So you already know but you are feminine. We are Romans 6, James 1. We have seen all of that. We'll go back to them better in the next episode. We would see how they relate with emotion and conscience judgment. Conscience judgment is like if you have always thought something was diabolical, but it wasn't. Let's say red cloth and you see it suddenly you are going to like react somehow. That's your conscious judgment acting. So there's the emotion of fear but it's because there's a conscious judgment that that thing is diabolical. All of this we are going to see in the next episode. But we have looked at all the aspects of the mind for now. See you on the next one. Thank you. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in [music] faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. [music] You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on [music] our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at [music] Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
