# Faith Stand (Part 12)

Welcome to Pleros podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Hakim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it.

## Setting a Vision for Purpose

All right, welcome back to the Pleros podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. And in this particular episode, we'll be wrapping up our study on faith stand. I believe after this, we want to look at another important subject matter, the inner man. And from there, this will lead us to like a wide variety of things that we want to see about who we are in Christ. So yeah that's that's the way we want to go because what we are doing is going back to this issue of that consciousness part of our mind and now zooming in on it. You know the last time we only saw the mind of man but with this we can look at just that part. Now that we know how that part is affected by faith and the reason is so that when we talk about who we are in Christ, you can relate with your nature and the state of the inner man and how these things are playing out with your conduct, your work etc. For now we talk about faith stand.

Now you recall that we know what God's purpose is. Yet we understand that the growth that happens on our mind on a on a particular part of our mind is responsible for the degree or the extent to which we fulfill God's purpose for our lives. So God has called you to be his son which is not just a child of God but one who has been given his assignments to fulfill. And because you are a child of God that um you're a child of God and an heir of God, you you have responsibilities given to you. You have a natural assignment and you have a spiritual assignment. You should have that sense that there are things for you to fulfill every day.

One of the simple ways you can set a vision for yourself according to God's purpose is to set a vision based on maximum productivity because God has called you to maximum productivity. So you can say if I'm doing all I'm supposed to do, where am I supposed to get to? I'm doing I have this responsibility in my hands. If I'm doing everything I'm supposed to do here, where am I supposed to get to? Now the reason why you do that is because one of the ways we are designed to live is by purpose. So by the drive of God's purpose. We are supposed to continue with the Lord with the purpose of our so as we are doing our natural work, we do it as unto him. Then when we are doing the spiritual assignments, we do it as unto him.

So if you say if I'm doing all I'm supposed to do, where am I going to get to? You can mark it out and say I need to get here right now. There's other ways of also having a vision. It can be by the Lord telling you and I mean it could tell you even about your natural assignment. Don't shut out God from any area of your life. Don't shut out the Lord from any area of your life. Don't shut out your father from any area of your life. We saw Jacob, you know, the Lord spoke to him about his natural assignment. We saw which I think Isaac. Yeah. Lord spoke to him about his natural assignment and we could go on and on not as many examples as spiritual of course but showing that God can speak about our natural assignments. So that will be another way.

There are instances of people till date who have had you know by revelation that means it could just be a flash of a vision or whatever. Oh maybe you should go about things this way. Maybe this is what you should do. And you know what's interesting? It could tie into your spiritual assignment as well, which is so important. So, you need to be very open to all that God wants to say to you. Now, we could say the same thing. You could set your vision for your spiritual assignment. You could set your vision for your spiritual assignment by maximum productivity as well. If I'm doing all I'm supposed to do, what will happen? But I think it's even easier. You could set it by the word. Jesus says to go and reach every person. Okay? So um but of course for some people there will be specific instructions by revelation.

Now it's not enough that you know God's purpose. Your utmost desire must be to fulfill that purpose that he has for you. And it takes growth to be able to bear the burden to fulfill his purpose. So you might know the journey of his purpose turns to make the way to go. But if you lack the strength to bear the burden, you would either be too slow or totally unable to carry the things you are meant to as you walk that journey of God's purpose.

## Growth in the Inner Man

And this is why it's so key that we examine this subject matter of growth. You know, and we've seen that this growth is not the growth of our spirit. Our spirit is the nature that we have. And it is 100% of God, of Christ. We are one spirit with the Lord. We have the fullness of Christ. We are partakers of the divine nature. Um on and on like that. So but then beyond that fact of um growth beyond the fact of we know that the growth happens on our mind not in our spirit is we know the particular area of our mind where this growth happens which is we can call it the reckoning or the consciousness part of our mind and I've explained that people use the word consciousness in many different ways.

So it can just be physical consciousness you know or the person lost his consciousness and has regained it. Some people use it in very weird ways mystical and esoteric ways. That's not the sense in which we are using it here. We are using it in ways I've already explained from certain texts of scripture. Um which is simply that place that speaks about our growth. It's also called the inner man or hidden man. I mentioned it in the episode I think maybe about the last or second to last episode of the mind of man and I'm going to talk about it when we get to the study of the inner man or hidden man better. So we'll see this part of our of our mind.

Now we have seen that what affects this part of our mind is our faith not knowledge. Right? So it's possible for people to know and their conviction is affected by what they know which means they agree with what they know but their reckoning or their consciousness has not matched up to their conviction. So one might know that he is a new creation the righteousness of God or a love being in Christ but the individual's reckoning or consciousness of himself has not matched up to who they know themselves to be in Christ. Okay. So it's one thing that you know this is who you are in Christ and is another thing that you have grown or matured into that.

So this why we see the constant emphasis on growth in God's word and his faith stand that affects that or you know there are different words that was used in scripture. We find for example different words that were used in scripture. Paul says reckon yourselves to be dead to sin our lives to God. So the word reckoning refers to this stand of faith. We also find other words like that we find um we find presenting yourself Romans chapter 6:13 as well as Romans 12 and verse one present yourself you know a besides presenting ourself we find other words like standing um like continuing in James 1 and verse 25 so continuing who you are in Christ so all of this to say that faith stand is so important and it's something that the apostles were working on.

## Measures of Faith

Now we have spoken about the mechanics of faith. Faith faith is of the heart and the mouth. And then we have spoken about the core principle of faith which is the persistence of faith. I want us to go to 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 today. And the last episode I was really hammering on the fact that the principle of faith as a whole can be seen working both positively and negatively. So in second in 1 Thessalonians 3 and verse 6 you can see Paul's desire for them to stay strong in their faith. It says but now that Timothy has come to you sorry now that Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us good news of your faith and love and that you always have good remembrance of us greatly desiring to see us as we also to see you.

Therefore, brethren, in all our afflictions and distress, we were comforted concerning you by your faith. That means when they heard about the state of their faith, they were like, man, these guys are doing well. And he gave them a form of relief because they were in this perpetual anxiety to see them like they are doing so well that these guys are strong. So, it's not a report on their knowledge, but it's a report on their walk, which a report on their walk is reflective of their faith. He says, "Now we live." So, you know, they they feel alive. They feel joyful if you stand fast in the Lord. Therefore, this issue of standing fast in the Lord is a matter of the state of their faith. So when they heard about their work, they knew their work was a product of their stand of faith. Okay.

Verse 9. For what things can we render to God for you? For all the joy with which we rejoice for your sake before God night and day praying exceedingly that we may see your face and perfect what is lacking in your faith. Now this is what I want to emphasize in this last. I want you to notice that he said we will perfect what is lacking in your faith. We will perfect what is lacking in your faith. So he said I want to see and I may perfect what is lacking in your faith. So I want to speak to the degrees of faith in this in talking to the Thessalonians in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 3. You will see him talk about the growth of their faith. It says 2 Thessalonians 1:3, "We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as this fitting because your faith grows exceedingly." You know, he was already commending their faith like, "Man, we are so proud of where you guys are like you are getting stronger and better. You are getting more knowledge of God's word and you are also getting stronger in the knowledge of God's word, you know, but I want to see you to perfect what is lacking."

Then he sends the second letter to them. It's like guys your faith is growing exceedingly. We are just giving God things. Your faith is growing exceedingly. Let me show you another text in second Corinthians chapter 10. This idea of people's faith growing can be seen. So there is a sense in which we ought to understand the degrees measures of faith. Right? It be wrong to think of faith only as agreement with truth. And so in this case it is immeasurable. But faith can be measurable in another sense. Right? See 2 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 14. Paul says we are not overextending ourselves as though our authority did not extend to you. For it was to you that we came with the gospel of Christ. So he's like don't tell me I don't have a right in Corinth. I came to Corinth with the gospel of Christ. I have a right there.

Now verse 15 is where we're headed. Not boasting in things beyond measure. That is in other men's labor. So we are not boasting in other people's labors but having hope that as your faith is increased. Did you see that? So faith can be increased your faith is increased. We shall be greatly enlarged by you in our sphere. So 2 Thessalonians 1:3 their faith is growing. 2 Corinthians 10:15 their faith increased will lead to them being enlarged. Now let me explain that. He's simply saying when you guys are stronger in faith, you'll be doing your assignments better. In this case, actually is their spiritual assignment. So, they'll be enlarged by them in their sphere because these guys are like getting stronger in the faith. You'll see them bolder to preach the gospel to share the faith in so many ways. And now because of that, there are more people that are being raised for the for the Lord. And because of that, they are now leading them. We have more um cell churches or units. You know all of these things are happening because they are getting stronger. Their faith is increased. So faith can grow, faith can increase.

## From Weak Faith to Strong Faith

Let's look at one more text. Romans and chapter 4. Romans and chapter 4. Talking about Abraham. We saw Abraham move from a point where he was weak in faith to becoming strong and fully persuaded. Romans chapter 4 and verse I'll jump all the way to verse 19. and not being weak in faith, he did not consider his own body already dead. So not being weak in faith, if you read the account of Abraham and you you get the sense in which he's speaking, he's talking about Abraham refusing to be weak in faith. He did not consider his body. You could read the account yourself and know that there was a time Abraham was considering his body. He said, "How shall this be when I'm already this age?" He doubted. He laughed. At a point, his wife also laughed. But he had to get into faith. He not being weak in faith. He did not consider his own body already dead since he was about 100 years old and the deadness of Sarah's womb.

He did not waver. You see this persistence of faith. He did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief. But was strengthened in faith. Thank you, Lord. He was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God. You see, thanksgiving plays that role, right? He was giving glory to God. Colossians 2:6, it says to verse 7, we are abounding in it with thanksgiving. He was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God. And being fully convinced that what he had promised, he was able to perform. So, he moved from weak faith to strong faith to full faith, if we could describe it that way.

And this is something we ought to um do no matter where you are. If you agree that the power of God is available maybe for healing or you know that you're a new creation. No matter how weak you are, you agree you might be weak. Now we're talking about your consciousness is weak even though your conviction is right. Then you can just stay there and move from that weak faith to stronger faith all the way to full faith and start walking in all that God wants you to do. There are so many other things we have not seen or like it's not like we have not seen the major things but we could say better about faith but for now I think we have said enough to give us the foundation on faith stand which is part of what the apostles expect us to know to see our faith grow and increase and us fulfill God's purpose for our life.

So from here we'll be moving to another subject matter which is study on the inner man or hidden man and um it's going to really bless you and I trust it to help you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Thank you for learning and listening along. You know, I'm I'm really hopeful to hear reports of your growth and your walk in God's purpose for your life. God bless you and see you on the next one.

We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleros.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pleros community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Pleros_org. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
