---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Place of the Gospel in your Life (Part 3)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ai6rzhx_Hh0
---

# The Place of the Gospel in your Life (Part 3)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Brothers and sisters, welcome to episode 3 Plurus podcast. We're continuing on very important subject matter, the place of the gospel in your life. We've seen a couple of things already. We've seen that the place of the gospel is not the place you want it to hold, but the place it claims that it holds, which is the place of truth. And if it says it is truth, then it means it is always right. It means you can do nothing against it, but for it, even what you do against it is still for it. only that is going to have a negative implication. [clears throat] And therefore, if the gospel's place is that of truth, we need to take it very seriously in two ways. One, to know the things it claims to be truth. And two, to see if indeed they are truth. And we said, how do you know that something is the truth? It's known by observation and reason. Is the way you know what kind of phone someone is using. It's the way you know what color of shirt someone is wearing. The same way we know truth on any other matter is the very same way the gospel says we can know it to be truth. And this is not just what I'm saying. This is what Paul himself taught as led by God as directed by God's spirit. Now we find our text in that regard. Ephesians 1:13 it says you trusted in Jesus after you heard the word of truth the gospel of salvation. So in that sense your faith in the gospel is premise that it is the truth. Then we went to Romans chapter 1 to see the very first thing the gospel claims to be truth which is the reality of God. We saw in Romans 1 and verse 16 Paul says he's not ashamed of the gospel. Then verse 17 says oh in the gospel righteousness is revealed but verse 18 says in the gospel the wrath of God is revealed. And the reason is when you believe you experience the righteousness of God. But on the other hand when one suppresses the truth as Paul called it the person experiences or is under the state of the wrath of God. Then we said if Paul is saying that they are suppressing the truth which is simply replacing the word gospel earlier with truth in verse 18. He's claiming that it should be quite obvious and evident to them but they are rejecting it. And he shows why he says it's obvious. He gives his evidence and concludes on the reality of God. We said you could get a more detailed explanation from several teachings on pleos.org. I think there will be well arrange on the site for you to find or you could ask anyone um to help you with teachings that handle that. If you are doing the pleos perfecting course, one of the first teachings and that and even after that you still meet teachings like that in level one. Yeah. At the very first level one handles that you meet like that in level three as well as level five. So please do the pluros perfecting course. Now let's go on. If the gospel claims to be truth, it means you need to take every claim it makes seriously so you can align your life with it. What's the second claim that it makes? The second claim it makes is that there is a reality of redemption fulfilled in Christ. But this claim again is based on what we can observe and reason which is the fact that we're in a world where there is contradiction. We're in a world I could actually start and say we're in a world where there is sin. But you know the challenge is when we say there is sin people's mind go immediately to what we do as humans like oh someone did a wrong conduct a wrong action that's sin. And there's no question that is also sin. But there is the use of sin in God's word. You know, particularly it's very common in Romans where you are talking about the state or conditions of things that are contrary to what is right, to what is good. So you said that sin, not the action contrary to what is right, the state of things contrary to what is right. Let me give an example. Someone being sick. When someone is sick, you're already making a statement that there is a way the person ought to be which is healthy. And for some reason, the person is having an experience contrary to what should be, you know. What other example can we use? Like if there is a disaster, you're like, "Oh, everyone is grieving." And why are we grieving? Is it's not normal as that's not what's supposed to be. You [snorts] know, maybe it has caused hurts and harm and you're bothered about the hurts and harm it has caused because those hearts and are not things that should be. So the condition in question is contrary to what ought to be. And that is something that we can all witness. We are living in a world with a contradiction, a world of sin which baffles us because on one hand you just said there is God and you've given evidence for that and that makes sense. But then how could there be God and we are witnessing a world with contradiction. Now think about it. The kind of contradiction we're witnessing in the world is such that like the example I use of sickness and health you know there is the original and there's the subsequent situation that is the absence of the original. Let me let me find a way to explain that. We could use the concept of light and darkness. Darkness it's is not an original reality in itself. Darkness is a reality premised on the fact that there is light first. Is the absence of light that becomes the reality of darkness. Take it one more step. Life and death. If someone sees something that is dead, maybe a lizard that is dead. The very reason why you can say that lizard is dead is because the lizard had life is now the absence of life that renders the lizard in the state where it is dead. Life and death, light and darkness are showing us the kind of contradiction we're witnessing in our world. There's something that is original, but there's something that has gone wrong or something has gone wrong, let's put it that way, and has brought in this other reality that is contrary to what originally ought to be, is meant to be. So, we can think about it conceptually like I've given it to you. We can think about it intuitively, morally. So many ways we can look at it to just see that boy, something is wrong with our world. So, sometimes we say we're living in a broken world. Sometimes they are living in a fallen world. Sometimes people say there is a fault with our stars. I mean many descriptions people trying to grapple with what is called the problem of evil. But the fundamental reality of evil remains there is the original and there's a subsequent contradiction. And that is what the gospel is addressing that you are witnessing a world of sin in need of redemption. A world that has gone wrong in need of redemption. and that the entire world is in bondage to this wrong. So whenever we talk about redemption, sometimes people are focused on their own actions like whether they are doing some right or some wrongs, how well they doing in their conducts and their behavior. But trust me, that's not even the big issue because before your actions come to play, you are already in the bondage under the bondage of sin. You are already part of the problem. No, let me a very classic example you find within God's word. It's like being born a slave in Israel whilst under the bondage of the Egyptians. You didn't have to do nothing. You didn't have to have done any wrong. You are just found under the bondage of the Egyptian. Your actions are not the issue. Your situation or condition is. And that's precisely what the issue is. So it's not a guilt that you have inherited. Is not a flaw that of someone else passed on to you. is a condition of bondage that you need freedom from. It's just the condition that you need freedom from. How did this condition come to be? Yeah, I understand. Your heart cries out to know and it's something we're going to examine when we get there. But notwithstanding the condition is and the condition requires that you are saved from it. So you're like, boy, I'm I don't know. I just found myself in just someone just born in prison, you know, and person says, how did I even get here? Blah blah blah. That those are valid questions. Well, if someone says, "I know the way out." Say, "I must first find out how I get got here if I find a way out." Boy, I don't even think you're serious. So, indeed, we're in this mess, as we're going to find out from God's word by the rejection of God's purpose. Humanity's rejection of God's purpose as inception that plunges the whole of creation and rest of humanity in the bondage of sin. That is a reality that we just have to address before we get into, oh, how could it be that this could happen? Well, what is the solution to this problem? That's what I want to show you. The second truth that the gospel claims if it holds this place of truth in your life and this one is important because if indeed we are living in a redemptive world and you have not believed in redemption there is a problem. Number two, if we are living in a redemptive world and you are not walking in redemption. So there's believing in it for the first but you are not walking in the reality of redemption there is also a problem. I mean you should be walking reality of redemption in your conduct in your in the power of God etc. So if you're not if you're not aware that the gospel holds this place of truth, not just to say there is God, but to also say there is redemption in this world, you'll be missing out on something so important, something so fundamental, something so necessary for your life, for your work, for your faith. So how can this mess be solved? It's evident there's some mess going on all around us. The entirety of creation and humanity particularly in its are subject to the contradiction of sin, death and darkness. Now let me tell you if you face a situation like darkness the only solution is the restoration of light. Period. If there's darkness somewhere the darkness is going to be solved is only because the light comes into the darkness then the darkness is gone. If there is death, the only thing that can be done is to bring life back into that situation where there is death. So I'll tell you that the problem we're witnessing has one solution. The original that right, that life, that light that has gone and brought in the contradiction needs to be brought back in. And no one needs to tell you that the original is God. The first, the initial, that which was rejected and plunging the state of things into this contradiction is God. It means what we need is God in his very nature of life and light restored back into our world. That implies that there's just one solution to the contradiction of the bondage of sin that we see in this world and that is God himself solving it. But there's one more thing we must know. He has to solve it justly because it is legitimately by man's choice that we find this contradiction in the world. So the solution must be justly done. And that's precisely why the solution is what we find as redemption in Christ Jesus. That is God himself enters into the problem. Light in darkness. [snorts] But injustice, injustice bears the consequences of the problem. Now let me say this. This problem we're witnessing of death and darkness is a degenerative one. Think about it like this. Your body is mortal, but it degenerates until physical death. That's the nature of this contradiction of sin of death of darkness. And that's why even after physical death, death degenerates further from mortality to physical death to a second death. That's what revelation will say in Revelation 20 talks about death and we're cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Death goes to death. You're like, how can that make sense? But oh, death has gone to death before. Mortality goes to physical death. Physical death leads onto another state of death. People who are under a state of spiritual death go to a second death. This degenerative effect of the problem means you cannot afford to toy with it. That means if I may threaten you, which I don't intend to, you cannot afford to toil with damnation. You cannot afford to toil with predition. You cannot afford to toil with perishing. I'm not trying to threaten you. I'm trying to encourage you. You need to realize that you need deliverance from this problem. That's what forgiveness of sins is. Is deliverance from sin. Deliverance from the bondage of sin. Whilst we can preach it relative to your conduct to make it clearer to you that there is a bondage you're under by look at your conducts, they are proof of that. We can say look at the contradiction in nature. We can say look at the contradiction in beliefs. The fact that there's truth and falsehood. It's notwithstanding true that you need this deliverance and only God can provide you. This why God became a man the person of Jesus so that he can justly bear upon himself the consequences that second death and therefore he dies that death on the cross so he can fully suffer the second death on our behalf. And in doing that, justly exhausting this consequence by his power of life and light is raised again from the dead. So that anyone that sees I cannot deny by observation and reason there is a problem. Except I want to be dishonest. I cannot deny the problem. I cannot deny that by observation and reason the only solution is the restoration of the original. That's God himself solving that problem. And the person says, "I cannot deny that the testimony of Jesus is the only account that fully addresses the resolution of this problem." Anyone that is honest to see that fact that this philosophically necessary need for salvation that was prophetically promised and has found his fulfillment in the person of Jesus historically is the only solution to this problem. Anyone that sees it and believes it, that person is saved. The second truth that the gospel claims is the reality of redemption fulfilled in Christ. And I want to encourage you if you have not believed be right now. It's as simple as saying, "Lord Jesus, I see I need salvation is clear. I know you have provided it by becoming a man and paying fully for this mess that is in this world. I'm being raised from the dead for my salvation. I put my faith in you right now to be saved." Thank you. We'll catch you on the next one. the thought truth the gospel claims. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will [music] find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, [music] don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
