---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 4)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYkCBNGwy80
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 4)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome back to the Player Rose podcast. Your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And we're looking at how to fulfill God's purpose. I mean, I think we're really now at in the thick of and the reason is we're looking at how to fulfill God's purpose and is really what the podcast is trying to get us to. And um everything else we'll be looking at after this is on the foundation of what we are examining in this particular subject matter. We had to see a couple of things before we got here. We saw the reality of God's purpose. Of course, we saw the place of the gospel as truth. Then the reality of God's purpose. And afterwards, we've seen the pursuit of purpose, which is simply saying the journey of purpose. How does it play out when you're walking with God, walking in his will, working in his purpose and plan for your life? And what we've seen is that God's purpose is sunship, right? To be his child and to be his heir. And in pursuing that as his child, we are to maintain a devotional life. Then as his heirs, we saw for each part of our inheritance, our natural inheritance, how it unfolds. And then as spiritual inheritance, how it unfolds. But then we said knowing how it unfolds is one thing. And having a capacity to get it done is another. We saw the words of the Lord Jesus in Luke 12 and verse 47:48 where he said, "He that knows my will." So you can know the will of the Lord, you can even know the journey of the will of God and does not prepare and do according to his will. So before doing he showed us there's the need to prepare. Said does not prepare and do according to my will be beaten with many stripes. So we need to prepare to do the will of God. What's that preparation that we are meant to have to do God's will? Well, it's not farfetched. If he wants us to prepare, he must have provided for it. And he did. When he had accomplished the work of redemption back into his purpose, he told his disciples to his apostles to the people he was sending, he told them to disciple all nations. So disciplehip is that required preparation to be able to do the will of God. So Mark chapter 28:18 that words he says in verse 19 particularly go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Then when we look at Luke chapter 6 where the Lord was making a commentary on disciplehip in that text actually he was commenting on the Pharisees and the effect they have upon people. But notwithstanding he gives a general principle of disciplehip. He said in verse 40 of chapter 6 of Luke, he says, "A disciple cannot be above his teacher, but everyone who is perfectly trained." If KJV, you see everyone who is perfect, but it's a verb there, the word katiso. So, everyone who is perfectly trained will be like or as his master. So, he's saying that in disciplehip, you cannot exceed the source that you are receiving from. But if you receive all from that source, you will be equal to that source. This is so powerful and it's so important. I I I hope we we get. So you cannot be beyond what you're receiving, what you're learning, who you are learning from. But if you receive fully from that source, you are perfectly trained from that source, then you would be equal to the source. I mean there's there's much to say there. Maybe one is that the goal of disciplehip is to equalize those we have been discipled by and we mustn't be found expecting anything different. We should expect when we are discipling people they should match up with us. We must have that sense of security. We mustn't be insecure is exactly what I'm saying too. When you're discipling people it will be hard. That means you don't even know what you're doing when you're discipling someone and you don't expect the person to be exactly as you are. But if you're discipling someone then you have to be careful because if the person is going to be exactly as you are you better be sure people should be the way you are. in Ephesians and in chapter 4 he uses the same word when he says perfectly trained but the noun of that word in Ephesians 4:11. So he said the Lord Jesus gave the leaders of the church apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastor and teachers for the perfecting of the saints to ensure that they fully receive everything they need to receive the perfecting of saint. Now katismos we have explained is from two words the word kata that means downwards and the word atios that means a perfect point a complete point or an end point. So it means they are to bring the saints to this completion point or to this end point. Now if that's what they are to do then our biggest concern will be what is the end point they are to bring them to. Then the second one will be how. So if my preparation for God's purpose is that I need to be brought I need to be discipled which is to be perfected to be brought to an end point. What's the end point? How am I brought to that? Verse 13 tells us that end point. He said till we all come to the unity of the faith. I like it. See we all there is no one that is excluded from this goal. All of us are to arrive at the unity of the faith the knowledge of the son of god. Then he says the perfect man the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So he gives four descriptions of this single end point or end goal that god has in mind. I hope you recall like in the last episode we saw that the implication of this text is that there are two goals, two ambitions in the life of the believer. There is the ambition to fulfill purpose but there's the ambition to grow to be able to fulfill purpose. You you' also recall the example we have been using the example of um someone who is told to carry two bags of cements quite heavy one on each hand and is to carry the 500 m distance without dropping it. I mean if you find that you are incapable of doing that the first thing is to know what it takes to do it build yourself to that point to be able to do it then go do it right now in the case of the work in God's purpose we need to build ourselves that way maintain it as we are doing it that's how it works we need to build ourselves to that point and maintain it as we keep carrying out the assignment until we are done with our work in this age there is a end goal we are to be brought to is described with knowledge as well as with growth. Now I want us to look at it. Verse 13 describes the end point in four ways. But if you read the four descriptions, you will notice two categories. Unity of the faith, knowledge of the son of God is one category and I'm going to explain and the other one is perfect man, the measure of statess of Christ is still one goal. We are to come to one point precisely. But this single point that we are to come to we find there are two things that are that are shown to us. Now what does unity of the faith mean? Or let's hold on a bit. We say unity of the faith, knowledge of son of God. That's one category. Perfect man, measure of statess of Christ. That's another category. Knowledge of the son of God is easy. That is knowledge information. Okay. But the first part is unity of the faith. That can be quite dicey. Unfortunately, people have assumed unity of the faith means agreement amongst people on a particular content of the gospel or agreement amongst people despite differences because they share the same faith. I don't think that's doing justice to the context of Ephesians 4. Ephesians 4 is saying there is a message I want to fully teach you that message. If you look at the parallel of this with Colossians, Colossians is saying, "I was chosen to fulfill the word of God." And the word there is to fully preach the word. So to make full God's word, I'm supposed to teach you everything. So he says, "Him, Christ with preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom." So unity of the faith can only be understood by first understanding what faith is. Faith ordinarily is the act of believing. That person has faith, believes something. But whenever you believe, you believe in message. So there is an information that is believed. And that's why we find that the word faith can be used beyond just the act of believing. It can be used for the message that is believed. So we told that certain people obeyed the faith, submitted to the faith. They all pointing out to the fact that they received the message and they are now in the system that that message brings forth. So you can see this extended usage of the simple word faith to that which is believed. Not just to the act of believing, but to that which is believed and to the system that what you believe is about. In this case, it's about the message that is believed. But when he uses the word unity and not which is about oneness, it could be oneness of people in disagreement or in division now one. But it also could be wholeness where there are parts that are put together and they form a whole. Since the issue here is the message believed where to come to the unity of the faith, the message believed. And there is no doubt that he's talking about the message believed because knowledge is at play. Even in the next verse, verse 14, that you be no longer children tossed through and through by every wind of doctrine. In case that's not enough, verse 15 again, he says, "Speaking the truth in love, still knowledge is at play. Even if you are not satisfied with that, verse 17 all the way to 19 keeps talking about the mind." All right? So, he's talking about knowledge and he's saying that the old knowledge, unity, the old knowledge is what he wants us to arrive at. This is not strange at all. This idea of we knowing the entirety of what God wants us to know is very consistent in scripture. In fact, the idea that God's word is such that we we can't know everything you know just try the one you know is okay keep trying keep pressing is not actually the disposition of scripture truly I understand that God's word is fresh we always have like this more inside this it's us are fresh in different ways but the framework of God's word is conclusive it's concluded it's it uh what's that word I'm trying to use it has its confines already the the entirety of God's word has it defined range is not open-ended. So sometimes it might pack you better in a particular way. You just you see something clearer. You have like this moment of a light bulb going on again. But it's in the refreshing nature of God's word for things like that to happen. It's not in the newness of information. You'll see Paul tell Timothy in 2 Timothy 3 and:10 he told him Timothy you have fully known my doctrine. That's KJB. Enk says you have carefully followed my doctrine. That word simply means you have gone on the journey of the doctrine with me completely. That means you have completed a lap of the journey with me. And he says continue what you have learned. That means keep going other laps. Keep growing in what you have learned. Not adding new things. Keep refreshing yourself in it. Peter is going to say this way in second Peter 1 and verse 12. He said I won't be negligent to put you in reminder of these things even though you know and you are established in the present truth. So you already know what I need to remind you of. You already established in it, but I got to remind you is precisely what Paul told Timothy in that same 2 Timothy 3 when he got to verse 14. He said, "Continue what you have learned and have been assured of." You know, Peter said, "What you know and you established in," Paul said, "what you have learned and have been assured of now." And they just to continue, they are to be reminded, they are to be refreshed. I hope you get the point. So unity of the faith means there's an entire scope of the doctrine. It's comprehensive no doubt but is an exhaustive scope of the doctrine is not endless. Sometimes we point to oh the unsearchable riches of Christ that's not talking about the knowledge there is the knowledge of the unsearchable rich of Christ is talking about the worth the reality of what we have is eternal life it's not exhaustible the reality of the things that has but the very knowledge of it is exhaustible but again the freshness it gives is not exhaustible the reality of what we have is not exhaustible but the knowledge of our faith is conclusive is exhaustible all right I think I've said from that he says we are to come to the unity of the faith the wholesome body of knowledge of God's word he calls it the knowledge of the son of god and it is that knowledge that makes for what he says next the perfect man the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ so he describes with knowledge twice and then he describes with the stature of our our persons twice the perfect man this is a complete man is complete imbued it's like we can talk about an adult one that is no longer a child which is why verse the very next verse we say that you be no longer children so you are a complete Each man you are fully developed through the perfect man. The measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. The word stature clearly pointing to growth. So how we fulfill God's purpose is to grow to that point in knowledge and the effect of that knowledge on our stature that makes it possible to do all that we are meant to do in God's will. We grow. We receive the knowledge of God's word completely. That's number one. Number two, we receive the effect of that knowledge in our stature or growth and then we are able to do what the Lord have us do. At this point, let me just plug in something. There's the pleos perfecting course that is precisely designed for this. But in the next episode, I will open to us exactly how we grow in this manner to fulfill God's purpose. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
