Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. Right, welcome back to the Polaros podcast. This is your daily dos of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We're looking at a subject matter I believe will bless you so much, the hidden man or we could say the hidden man of the heart. And this is bringing us to a core area in our study. Like I said, after this we would be going into different areas where we need to address this hidden man or this inner man. So it's a point where you need to really understand all that God's word has to say about about you.

## The Four Pillars of God's Purpose

Okay. So what has led us to this point is the understanding we have about God's purpose that God's purpose is sunship. He wants us to function as his child and as his heirs. He wants us to fellowship with him and walk in his nature and character. But he also wants us to carry out our natural assignment and spiritual assignment. So if you can, I want you to always think of God's purpose maybe in these four points. You know, child of God that fellowships with him number one walks in his nature and character number two. Then hear of God that carries out natural assignment and spir number three that's his natural assignment. Number four, spiritual assignment. if it helps you know to enumerate it but knowing God's purpose as you know beautiful as it is um is not equal to fulfilling it there is the journey the walk the road map of of God's purpose but there's also the ability to be able to bear the burden as we walk the journey of God's purpose and that requires growth it requires transformation.

## Enlightenment Versus Transformation

That growth and transformation we need is not merely receiving knowledge because when we receive knowledge of God's word what we have is enlightenment which prerequisite for transformation but enlightenment is not transformation is so important I don't think anyone needs to tell you that like when you know it gives you stability certainty confidence at least you are not being tossed to and fro you are set now you know what you need to grow in but when you don't know I mean you are subject to the whims of anyone's um words of belief systems whatever they touting And you know there are people that know how to spin words and use words and they might not be they might not be saying the truth. So on you know just imagine you know the maybe the color of something is maybe white like it doesn't matter what anyone says about it you're just looking at them like I don't think you know what you're talking about. The same is true on much uh critical matters much more critical matters like matters of our existence and of the faith. 

You know, once you have the evidence and it's settled for you, you could hear people's arguments all day long. You could hear people debate the text all day long, but you have the framework of your um conviction well set because it is reasoned out. You have been enlightened by the word. But if all you desire is the confidence of knowledge, then you have a problem because I mean you'll be dissatisfied because what you want to do is fulfill God's purpose. Not just to know about it or to know the truth about who you are. You want to walk in it and do it and it's a journey no doubt. Um you have to grow and growth is not perfection. Growth is you are improving, developing until you are so strong to handle many issues easily. 

## The Process of Reckoning

But you um that growth rather requires not just knowledge but what we have seen is reckoning. Romans 6 says that now that you know he says reckon yourself to be dead to see alive unto God. James 1 repeats the same thoughts. We've said that reckoning is faith stand. But what we are seeing now is that this reckoning affects the hidden man. This faith stand affects the hidden man. That's why we are studying the subject matter the hidden man. The whole point whenever we are reckoning God's word like I've seen for example that I am the righteousness of God and I say I'm the righteousness of God in Christ or I've seen that I'm a love being and I say I'm a love being in Christ Jesus you know I don't hate I don't work in selfishness I don't work in unforgiveness when I'm reckoning those things what is changing is not my inward man which is my spirit man what is changing is my is the Eden man my hidden man I can also say so the hidden man of my heart or the hidden man of my mind. 

We could actually call that hidden man the mind man if you want to say that and we could speak of the outward man as the body man. So in this sense we can speak of man on those three levels. Remember that the hidden man is not the mind. The hidden man is a specific part of the mind that we are going to know we're going to address again in this particular subject um study. So there is the Eden man and I want you to recognize that whenever you say I'm a new creation whenever you are praying you could be praying in the spirit that is you're praying in tongues you know you are praying in your understanding or you are confessing God's word and you are speaking to the reality of who you are something is changing and that's your hidden man you know your body your outward man I mean may not be affected by what you're talking about um depending actually may not be affected by what you're talking about. 

## Adorning the Mind Man

Your spirit man of course is not affected because you are complete in Christ. You have been perfected forever. You are um a partaker of God's nature. That is that is it. That you are one spirit with the Lord. Your spirit man is set. It's just like I mean you receive the spirit of God and the spirit and your spirit now have the same witness because they have become fused if you may use that word into one you know. So with that in mind then you know your focus is not on improving your spirit man. Your focus is on improving this hidden man adorning this hidden man developing this hidden man or the inner man. Now you'd have heard people say things like training the human spirit. So let's not get too caught up with the terminology as as important as they are what they really mean training the spirit of the mind you know. So we can that's why I said we can spare the word spirit because in Ephesians 4:23 Paul says the spirit of the mind and what he was talking about would say is the inner man. It wasn't talking about our spirit. Our spirit is our spirit but spirit of the mind says the spirit that which causes effects though unseen that is of the mind. The only thing that causes effects though on seen on our mind is our spirit. Now our will is what gives direction to that. 

1 Peter chapter 3, Peter was talking to wives generally but specifically those whose husbands are unbelieving in the gospel. It says they should be submissive to their own husband that even if some do not obey the word they without a word may be one by the conducts of their wife. We must be careful to understand what Peter is saying. Pet doesn't assume our life gets people saved. faith that gets people saved, which means they need to hear the message. But it means he recognizes that our life, our conduct can repel or attract people. Verse two, and there's a lot to be said there anyways, more so, you know, when you minister the gospel, you're not perfect. And of course, when you make mistakes, you should repent and all, but you should really believe God by his grace, by his working in you to avoid, you know, certain things that would make the message more difficult for people to receive. 

## Incorruptible Cosmetic of the Spirit

Okay. So verse two it says when they observe your chasteed conduct accompanied with fear. So they are attracted they are drawn to the to the message and and then they drawn to the message to believe it when they observe your chasteed conduct accomp accompanied sorry with fear. Verse three do not let your adornment which I told you is the word cosmetic you know your makeup. Yeah that's good. Do not let your makeup be merely outward. So your makeup I know makeup we think only of the skin but here is everything you do. You know it says the arranging off your hair wearing gold putting on fine appear. Don't let your makeup your fashion be many out be merely outward rather let it be the eating person of the earth. So he said don't let it just be your outward man. 

Now at this point we are likely to think in 2 Corinthians 4:16 times and say okay he's saying my adonment should not be my um should not be my outward man. So he's saying my adornment should be my inward man. So he's talking about my spirit. But if we are doing thorough um analytical reasoning as we should do when we're interpreting scriptures on the on the word then we realize that our inward man cannot be developed. And that would mean that when it speaks of the hidden person of the heart or the hidden man of the heart again when you understand that 90 something% of the use of the word heart I mean very high 90s of the use of the word art is for the mind. It is really rare even though I understand people sometimes use heart and spirit. It is really rare in God's word that art means spirit. Very rare. And this is true both in the old testament text and the new. It is mostly speaking about the mind. Yeah. You know, it's mostly speaking about the mind. 

So by time he says the hidden man of the heart or the hidden man of the mind, he says you are to adorn not just your outward man, but you are to adorn the hidden man of the mind with an incorruptible makeup. So there's a corruptible makeup or cosmetic and there's an incorruptible cosmetic that you are supposed to apply. You'll notice the word incorruptible beauty in KJV is italicized. The word beauty is italicized of course added by the translators. You know when you see italicized words the translators into the English language told us that they added it to help our understanding. But their choice to make it italicized is for us to think through it to be sure that it's reflecting fully what the authors intended. So beauty is fine, design is fine. We could just say incorruptible makeup or incorruptible cosmetic of a gentle and quiet spirit. 

So, um I'm not female so I I have big ideas about how it works. I mean there are different things people use eyelashes and um I forgot the other one foundation and um mascara. I don't know. I should mind my business now. But you know, you use those different things. But he's saying that these are corruptible ones. And I mean it's pretty obvious within a day. I mean sometimes within hours it's fading away but he's saying that there is a cosmetic you should apply that is incorruptible really he's saying you are meant to draw your spirit and impose on your mind so he says adorn the hidden man with the incorruptible cosmetic of a gentle and quiet spirit speaking about meekness speaking about gentleness you know because of course he was talking about submission so that plays into what he's saying and he's saying we we draw from the incorruptible nature that we have in Christ and we adorn our hidden man of the heart with that. Okay. And he says this is very precious in the sight of God. But his people being robed in the character of the spirit is something that God likes. God loves right and I mean that's nobrainer. So it's something that God likes. God loves for people to be robed, for people to be dressed, for people to be made up in that which is of their nature on their mind. 

## Strengthening the Inner Man

Okay. So, I think we have done a good enough job to show that the Eden man is not the spirit man. The Eden man is really talking about what we can call a mind man. Is the man of the mind. Now, there's a place where Paul also spoke in this manner and it's not yet Ephesians 4:23. I told us I'll get to that. But we'll go to Ephesians chapter 3 first where Paul had told us about inward man and outward man. We speak about another man that is worth examining. In Ephesians 3 and:14 it says for this reason I bow my knees to the father of our lord Jesus Christ from whom the whole family in heaven and on earth is named. So he's praying. He's bowing his knees. He's praying. Now I want you to notice verse 16. Super powerful. He said that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory. 

Let me pause here. You know, if you've read Paul's letters a bit, then you'll notice that most times what he calls the riches of God's glory because he calls God's glory is spirit because God's glory is just the weight or the influence of him which often speaks to for us relative to us his spirit given onto us. So by the time he says the riches of his glory, he's saying the wealth of the spirit, the you know the wealth of the spirit, things that are possible by the spirit. So grant you according to the let me say possibilities of the spirit if you to be strengthened with might. Amen. To be strengthened with might by the spirit in the inner man. 

Now there is the argument that he's saying he wants us to be strengthened by the spirit that is already in our inner man. But there's also the potential um what's it called conclusion and summation that he's saying he wants us to be strengthened by the spirit in our inner man. That is he wants us to be strengthened in our inner man by the spirit. You know, even if you leave the arrangements, the structure, the scientical structure the same. That is, he wants us to be strengthened through the spirit in the inner man, it could still mean that he wants us to be strengthened in our inner man by the spirit. And here we might have debate over what interpretation is correct, but I'll tell you that it leans strongly, extremely strongly towards the other end. That is he wants us to be strengthened in our inner man by the spirit. And by inner man is repeating the same thoughts that Peter one of the things we can notice is the word in which is in this case a is onto the inner man. So he's talking about the work of the spirit that is done onto the inner man. Don't worry in the next episode I'm going to explain better. See you there. 

>> We trust you are blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
