---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast, faith, christian-living, prayer]
date: 2026-03-02
episode: "Faith Stand (Part 9)"
guests: None
summary: "Faith Stand is at the center of the Christian life—it is how believers grow and walk in God's purpose. This episode emphasizes the persistence of faith, using the parables of the friend at midnight (Luke 11) and the unjust judge (Luke 18) to illustrate that true faith is unashamed and insistent. It explores the difference between mechanical repetition and genuine persistence based on conviction, urging believers to maintain their stand on God's word until results are seen."
---

## Introduction

Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it.

## Main Message

All right, welcome back to the Polaros podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Now, we're looking at faith stand and I could say welcome back to faith stand. This is how you are transformed to fulfill God's purpose. And I will be right because we are really at the center of um we are really discussing what is at the heart and at the center of the Christian faith because that's exactly how you got saved by faith. But now we're talking about how you grow and how you walk in all that God wants you to do is by faith. Faith is at the center of um the Christian life. You know it's at the center of the Christian life. If you misunderstand it, there's going to be you are going to miss out on certain things that should be part of your life. Um, all right. Now, we must be careful not to import and today because I mean the subject matter of faith has a wide variety of teachers and teachings and opinions and ideas and summations and conclusions. We have to strive as much as God can help us to stay as close to the truth revealed in God's word on this subject matter as possible. Maybe I should say it at this juncture that one thing we must be honest about is when it comes to faith because faith has to do with results and it is easily um verifiable by results. Say we are talking about healing and someone is yet to receive their healing or we're talking about any other kind of need. the im the the immediate concern of I expect a result that I'm not seeing if they have yet if they yet to see can come up and there must always be this honesty on the part of the preachers of God's word or at least I'll say on my part to say there are times where the answer is we don't know why things happen or why some things are the way they are but we know what God's word has said and that means we stick with God's word independent of what we don't know. So we are human beings. We have limited knowledge. We definitely do not know everything. I mean we don't even know the materials that make up certain planets. We don't know whether there are certain things that have not been discovered on other planets. We don't know so many things in natural. So this attitude of there are things we don't know is fine. Um and we must be willing to say that upfront but say that up front so that we can focus on what we know. that what we know is enough for us to live by and we'll stick with it independent of any contradiction there may be until you see the results. So that must be your attitude. Now I've not got to talking about things like healing. There's going to be a separate uh series on that for the podcast. And I say that because healing is an awesome subject matter that involves our faith and other areas of our lives where we must walk in the wisdom of God. I used to use the example someone that eating is hitting his head on the wall and at the same time having faith for healing from headache will not even know when he's healed. There are times people are doing the wrong things and they are staying in faith. Yeah, it's sort of like deceiving yourself. So you are contradicting yourself. You have to be doing right in the natural and then you should also be doing right in the supernatural. But let's leave all of that for later. Presently we're just looking at faith stand. That's how we grow to fulfill God's purpose for our lives. Now um we have seen um we've seen that growth happens by faith. Let's just say we've seen that from Romans 6 where Paul told them that you know you are already dead to sin you are alive to God. The old man is gone but you need to reckon yourselves and he told them present your members not as instrument of right unr righteousness but rather as instruments of righteousness. Romans 12:1 will repeat the same thoughts to them when told them in Romans chapter 12 and in verse one to present themselves as a living sacrifice holy acceptable unto God and by so doing they are not being conformed to the world but rather they are transformed by that renewing which is that presenting is the renewing or refreshing of their mind. Now with all of this said we need to we need to get to where we are now in faith. So there is no doubt that what Paul was teaching in Romans 6 and Romans 12 is what we call what we can rightly call faith stand and that's because 2 Corinthians 1:23 24 makes it clear that that was the work he had towards them. He told them I don't have dominion over your faith. I can't control you. You know um preachers do not have control over other people. Now um when we lead the church we can put order in the church but we must be careful with the other word control because that might mean usurping people's will to act in a particular way and is not reflective of the scripture in any way because the scripture is very loud in respect of freedom of conscience. So whilst there's order and how the church is set up and that's why you find the bible talk about people that are unruly when order is laid down they go against the other so they unruly but the idea of having control dominion will be completely different ball game in aid the order that we set up in church the work of the preacher is just to help people's faith that is all so you can set up the order and then you have done your part where to meet at this time this is how to grow this what you're supposed to do next you find different people at different levels of their growth some behaving and some misbehaving. Your job is to help them so that they can line up with what they are supposed to do. We are just helpers of the faith of people and um if he says I have I do not have dominion over your faith. I'm a fellow helper of your for your joy of your joy. You know at that point it means all we can do is supply the knowledge for their faith. Supply um yes supply the knowledge that bring them into conviction. um also supply the inspiration you know so or exhortation that will cause them to take a stand on God's word. So it's one thing I come to church and I preach a very powerful message about who we are in Christ and you know about redemption about anything. Sometimes I could just be teaching on any other subject matter. Now indeed when we teach on any subject matter it should usually do tail into redemption and the new creation because this is the essence of the of God's word like at the from the very getgo just wanted us to have his life walk in his life. So today we might find as a matter of necessity in our theology that we deal with fine details of doctrine here and there. But if we cannot tie it back to what should make for our walk which that walk includes fellowship with God, worship of him, prayer and then our pursuit of his purpose of of our assignment. uh then I don't you know at that point um there no matter how honoring people might be of the knowledge that is shared the essence of that knowledge be lost if it doesn't lead to worship or walk or just walk which includes worship. So it's very important that we have the right perspective to how we approach um let's say that as a whole. So we must have the right attitude to how we approach the faith. Uh we don't want to on the side of you can teach anything and get away with it because you want to you want to speak to the work we are meant to have in worship in our assignments or even in our personal life. But there you can on the side of the knowledge of God's word not affecting our work. That would not be the that will not be God's expectation. So faith is really important you know faith is really important we thank God for people like Kenneth again that have helped our understanding on this subject matter several people as well shedding more light um presently we have been focused on two principles of faith the fact that faith is of the heart and the mouth and the second one the persistence of faith and I think this issue of the persistence persistence I'm sorry of faith is probably the is probably what faith is when we say faith stand in this case is at the center what it is that is faith stand is that standing there and insisting on what is already true um in true of God true in his word until we see the results of the same. So but we stand there insistently you know and I showed it the last time Luke 11 if you recall what the Lord Jesus said there in Luke 11. In Luke 11, it talked about the man that had a friend come visit him in the midnight and didn't have anything to offer him. And so, he went to his other friend who was already asleep with his children on the bed. And I mean, he was persistent. NKGV used the word persistence. KJV uses the word opportunity and we could simply say he was unashamed. So, of course, persistence is there. He was just not going to give up. He did not care. And there is that type of attitude to faith that well no matter how it looks I'm here like I'm I'm I'm going to get this thing. I'm so sure about it. You know so there is that kind of confidence that we have and the Lord ended that by saying I say so I say to you ask and it be given to you. Now I want you to remember that what led to that parable that the Lord used was the Lord's prayer or their father prayer. So the Lord had just taught them how to pray. He then told a parable that speaks to the need for being unashamed, the need for having opportunity or being persistent. Right? He he he he told a parable to that end just after teaching on prayer. Oh my god. Do you get this? Because that means he's saying prayer has this attitude of persistence of insistence. And I understand that there are certain texts of scripture people have read and by those texts they have um become weary about being persistent in faith. For example, people can read the instruction of the lord about not having vain bablings and they say oh that means don't repeat anything in prayer. This mindset will be correct because there were repetitions in scripture of prayer. You know um there is no guarantee of lack of repetition. Language is limited. Naturally my language limited even when you pray in tongues I I try not to pay attention to what I'm saying but you know there's tendency to say oh maybe that person is repetitive what really counts is that genuinely in your heart you are persisting in faith about the issue your expressions might differ or sometimes might be the same but it's not the case that you are just going through a recitation you know and that's a challenge I know that there are people who do recitation and it has become a But genuinely if you're persisting in faith that is what it means that's what the Lord is speaking to and is against this mechanical repetition or recitation as what delivers the result is rather that insistence that persistence until the job is done. So he says the person knocks. He says whoever asks receives whoever seeks find whoever knocks the door will be open to the person. Now let me show you the second parable we should look at from the Lord on the persistence of faith. You need to be persistent when it comes to faith. The second parable is about even though this one has the possibility of being an escatological narrative, you know, is in Luke 18 and verse one, it spoke about the widow and the unjust judge as he's often called. You know, he just didn't care for anyone. So in verse 18 and verse two, there was a certain see a judge who did not fear God nor regard man. Now there was a widow in that city and she came to him saying get justice for me for my adversary. And he would not for a while but afterwards he said within himself though I do not fear God nor regard man yet because this widow troubles me I will avenge her lest by continual coming she weies me. Now can you see that it's just sheer persistence but something has to fall the persistence if a man is in faith is the utter conviction about the truth of what you are standing on. This is the truth. So I am not going to give up on it no matter what. You often hear people who have exercised faith for very difficult situation and seen results sometimes say that if it hasn't happened till maybe some 50 years time down the line. They will still be there of course I mean but you get what I mean shouldn't be that long but there must be that conviction that is already set up to be that persistent. The kind of conviction conviction that is set up to be if I may say eternally persistent is the kind of conviction that defines the faith stand of which we speak. Right? So it says lest by continual coming she wearies me. Now verse six the Lord said hear what the unjust judge said and shall not God and shall God not avenge his own elect to cry out to him day and night though he bears long with them. So there's the argument that this is about the esquetology um esqueological fulfillment of redemption in the consumation of the earth that is let me just say simple English the arguments that is about the return of the lord the lord's coming right that is eventually going to consumate this age you know consumate his plans in this age but it says he's going to he's going to avenge his lead though he bears long with them and I think it's the primaries of the text but the lesson on faith is present notwithstanding Verse 8, I tell you that they will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the son of man comes, will he really find faith in the earth? So the kind of faith we have esqueologically is the kind of faith which is a salvific faith anyways that the faith we have Christ has done redemption that redemption will be consumated is the kind of faith we should also have for our walk presently, you know, our present work, right? that faith that does not give up, that faith that is persistent. And so this very important principle of faith is necessary. So very likely in the next episode or I don't know maybe after we'll be wrapping faith stand to move into a new subject matter. But I do want you to appreciate the importance of persistence as baked into the conviction that we call faith and that makes for faith standard. For now, have a good one and see you on the next.

