---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 7)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gd8cwjfH0Yw
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 7)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome to another episode of the Plus podcast where I'm still feeding you your daily dose of God's word, helping you to fulfill God's purpose. And today we are looking at how to fulfill God's purpose. You recall that we have already seen the reality of God's purpose. We have seen the pursuit or the journey of God's purpose. We've seen that God's purpose for our life is sunship. We have also seen that sunship means to be God's child and to be God's heirs. So why we exist is because God wants us to be in his family, fellowshipping with him, walking in devotion towards him, growing in our nature and in our character. That's a foundational part of God's purpose. We are functioning as children of God walking with him. But as his child, he gives us responsibilities, which means we are also hears of God. And we could call those responsibilities inheritance, things that he owns, that he assigns to us to do or manage for him. We could call them assignments because the word means a lot that is assigned to you. When you say an inheritance, a lot assigned. And here is one who is assigned a lot. So there is that which the Lord has given to us to do to fulfill in his purpose for our life. There are assignments has given to us to do in his purpose for our life. How do we fulfill his purpose? very clearly from the words of the Lord Jesus when he had accomplished the work of redemption which is a redemption or restoration back into his purpose. The instruction he gave the disciples is not only for people to be saved and to now be found in his purpose for their lives but for them to be discipled to fulfill that purpose. So they are not only to be saved, they are to be discipled to fulfill that purpose that God has for them. Now in in saying that you know the Lord is saying oh the way these people will be able to walk as I want them to to do everything I've commanded you to walk in love you know to walk as children of their father to do the assignments that I have for them to do my will is that they need disciplehip. You remember the other text we look at we looked at as well which is Luke 12 and verse 47 as well as 48. The Lord Jesus said, "He that knows his master's will and does not prepare and do according to his will be bitten with many stripes." So that means knowing his will is not enough. It's important that you know his will because the very next verse says if you do not know his will and yet you did things deserving of stripes, you'll be beaten with few stripes. So knowing the will of God is key. You don't escape the responsibility to find out what God's purpose for your life is. But then even if you know the will of God, there is the responsibility to prepare and do. Many times we want to jump from knowing the will of God to doing it. And that's a sure way to fail at doing God's purpose. Anyone that like tries to jump from now I know this is God's purpose for my life. He has assignment for me and jumps to just doing without preparation will likely do it out of the flesh or fail at doing it at all. Anyone that moves from this is God's will to I'm just going to go and do it without that very serious intention to prepare to do it. I don't mean you stop your life, you know, you stop living your life to prepare to do God's will. It's going to happen alongside what you're doing. But you must commit yourself to the preparation. One thing is sure, our disciplehip is lifelong. Preparation may be foundational for a phase, but is ongoing. Not withstanding. It's like there's a phase when the child is born. There's a phase of intense preparation that happens, right? run through primary, secondary and then you go to your um tertiary institution. There is that early phase of rigorous training and then afterwards you are done you have gotten some expertise and specialization in an area that shouldn't be the end of learning but you have at least gone through the foundational phase of learning then you are now in an ongoing phase of learning. The same is actually true spiritually very true spiritually. It's even true like of plants, you know, particularly fruit plants. You plant the seed, there's a phase where it is going to you're going to see no fruit is just a preparatory phase and then you start to bear fruit. But that doesn't mean the the tree is not going to be going through cycles where it's still receiving sunlight, where it's still receiving nutrients from the soil and all of that. It doesn't stop receiving some things but at the beginning it can't fruit until it has at least gotten to a phase of growth and development before the continuous sustainance that it needs. Now the same thing is true spiritually. There's really a foundational phase of growth for the believer as there is an ongoing phase of there's an ongoing preparation ongoing learning ongoing training that still happens ongoing disciplehip or perfecting that still happens for the believer but there's that foundational phase okay I don't want to lose the thought I was saying you don't have to stop your life to do it that's where that's where I was you don't have to stop your life to do it but you need to be intentional about I need to be prepared to do the will of God don't forget if you do not receive preparation to do God's will you are either going to do out of the flesh or going to fail at it altogether. You need to be prepared to do God's will for your life. You need to be prepared to function as his hair. You need to be prepared to function as his child as well. You need to be taught, oh, this is how to pray and worship. This is how to walk with God in his nature and his character. But more importantly, for the assignment that he has given you to fulfill, you need the training of God's word to be able to do that. Now, in that light, we have been looking at okay, what exactly is this training like? what does it entail this disciplehip that the Lord says we need and Paul's explanation has been quite eye open on that matter particular if we're looking at Ephesians 4:1-6 Paul was practically retreating what Jesus instructed but now in an explanatory form so he was saying when the Lord ascended on high he gave the leaders of the church he gave gifts to men and he describes those leaders with the terms apostles prophets ex evangelists pastors and teachers why were they given he says for the perfect son of the saints which interestingly is a word that the Lord used in Luke 6:40 to talk about disciplehip. So he's simply saying they were given for the disciplehip of the saints but he chooses a word that is more explanatory. So disciplehip is more speaking to the relationship. Someone is teaching the other person his thoughts. But by the time you use the word perfect in katiso or katismos, you are saying someone must bring another person to an end which the Lord said in Luke 6:40. A disciple cannot be more than his master but he that is perfectly trained katiso would be as his master. So there's a goal in mind and that goal is what Paul starts to explain better to us in Ephesians 4 and verse 11 down to 16. In verse 13, it tells us that goal till we come to the unity of the faith, knowledge of the son of God, perfect and measure of the stature of fullness of Christ. And I told you to notice that there are two categories of this goal despite using four descriptions. So the four descriptions are not saying four different things necessarily. They are all added, they are all trying to point us to one thing, but he's using two categories or classes of description to show us that one thing that the Lord wants us to grow into. In fact, if you recall, Ephesians 4:15 will say we will grow up into Christ. So all these descriptions are reflective of how our Lord was in his earthly work. That we can we can get to the point that we are like him in growth. [sighs] I understand like there's some difference. We'll never be perfect and sinless, but he's not he's not cutting us that much slack. He's not saying, you know what, just grow as you like. Just be at any point in growth that you like. No. What's the point of doing that? How are you going to do less or um fall short of the kind of growth and the kind of work and the kind of the extent of fulfillment of gospel purpose you should have? You should be able to do all that the Lord wants you to do. So don't set the bar lower than God has set for you. He said he gave the leaders to bring you to this point. Don't set the bar lower. They are to bring you to this point in knowledge, unity of the faith, knowledge of the son of God that to bring you to this point in growth. perfect man measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So he describes it with knowledge and he describes it with our stature growth. And I've been trying to explain that to us, you know, step by step. I showed us verse 17 that this growth we are meant to have is a growth in our mind. We are not to walk as the rest of the Gentiles do or as those who don't believe the gospel do, as those who don't have the life of God do. And how are they walking? They walking in a mind that is devoid of what it should have of the truth of God's word. So he says they walking in futility of their mind. Their understanding is darkened. They are alienated from the life of God. They don't have that nature of God because of the ignorance that is in them. So something that is meant to be on their mind is not there because of the blindness of their heart. Now what is this that should be on their mind that is not there? Verse 20 tells us is the truth that is lacking on their mind. He says you have not so learned Christ if indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. So there is the truth that we have been learning. There's the truth that should be present on our mind. Now you could say this truth is about everything from who God is to the redemption Christ has done to esquetology to the reality of the church and his mission to you know so many things we can learn within God's word and you'll be right to say that because unity of the faith is that encompassing which is the entire scope of the doctrine yet in the entire scope of the doctrine there is an emphasis and that emphasis is who we are in Christ right verse 22 says the truth I want you to is that you should put off concerning your former conversation the old man. That means there is a way you used to walk your former conversation. Put off that thought about yourself as who you used to be the old man which produced the lifestyle you used to have and be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on the new man which is created after God in righteousness and holiness of truth. So the emphasis in knowledge that we are meant to have on our heart on our minds is the new creation. The central truth that is lacking on the mind of anyone that is walking in a worldly manner, anyone that is not walking as Christ does. The central truth lacking is the reality of who they are in Christ. Let let's take a pause at at that point. So what we need to have on our mind is the reality of who we are in Christ. I could say this way that if we go to Ephesians 4:13 when it says we are to come to the unity of the faith, the end goal of all the knowledge of God's word is this confident and assured recognition of who we are in Christ. that knowledge of the son of God. Knowledge of who we are in Christ. He wants us to know precisely exactly perfectly who we are in Christ. And he says we are to come to the perfect man, the measure of the stature of Christ. Now this is where we take it a step further before we start to tie everything back together. If you are going to fulfill God's purpose, you need growth. And we are saying that that growth is by knowledge primarily that will produce a stature. And that knowledge particularly is the knowledge of the new creation. There are other details no doubt but the knowledge of the new creation is at the heart and at the center of our growth that I will grow up into Christ in all things. But then when you know is that equal immediately to growth like oh I just know I'm a new creation. Oh thank you. That's what I'm lacking. I'm supposed to know who I am in Christ. I'm a new creation. Does your knowledge equal growth? Does the knowledge of the new creation is it equal to growth? The answer is no. It takes the knowledge of the new creation to grow. But knowing who you are is not automatically equal to growth. So when you come to church, you learn, wow, I'm a new man. You you learn I've put off the old man. The body of sin is dead. But your work is not immediately guaranteed by that knowledge. And there is what we do that gives us the structure of the knowledge that we have. This is important because once we understand these two things, knowledge and what we do with knowledge that gives us growth, then we know how to grow to fulfill God's purpose. And then it's at that point we'll begin to look at the individual realities of who we are that we need to grow in to fulfill God's purpose. What exactly brings about the growth of the believer? Now, if you're a believer, you find yourself like, I know I'm a new creation, but I find myself fall short and shy of the realities of who I am in different regard. It could even be in the supernatural and maybe I'm not as effective as I should be. It could be in character. It could been it could be in your exercise of the believer's authority and you're like I'm a new creation quite all right but I don't know whether my work is necessarily reflecting the reality of the new creation as I would desire. Okay. The reason may be you know but you are not responding to the knowledge you have as the scripture expects you to. That means the perfection of the saints is knowledge first but there's something else. So we coming to the perfect man, the measure of statess of Christ is we receive the knowledge particularly of who we are, but we respond to it to grow. And we're going to see how exactly we do that in the next episode. Catch you on that one. &gt;&gt;
