---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 5)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gzSMp6aPzI
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 5)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome back to the Pllearos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. We've come a long way. We have seen a couple of things and we're making further progress in our studies and a lot of our studies have been centered upon God's purpose, but we are now at the core where we are looking at the transforming you part to fulfill God's purpose. We have done enough to help you see what God's purpose is. I believe from the direct revelation of God, right? You know that purpose by nature is that which must be revealed. It's not something that can be known by observation and reason. So you need revelation to know God's purpose. But here at this juncture for some people they will assume that the revelation needed to know God's purpose is God's personal revelation to them. So he speaks to them like hey this what I want you to do and we've seen that is not wrong at all. In fact it's it's a it's an important part of our walk in God's purpose. You could have that um and you could have it in a major way grand way and sometimes in not so grand ways and it's usually vital. I don't think anyone can possibly escape having you know some level of personal revelation uh of God's purpose for their lives at different junctures. Could be just by an inward witness, you know, etc. But the primary foundational way of recognizing what God's purpose is what we can call his direct and general revelation to humanity which is his open letter to us which is his word the document that is authorized by him in the resurrection of Jesus as the authorized document of truth and revelation and that's the Bible. So from the Bible we can clearly and directly see what God's purpose is and Ephesians 1 is particularly one of the most most explicit text if we will say that um about God's purpose because Ephesians 1:9 says he has made known unto us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure which is what he proposed in himself. Then Ephesians 15 also tells us that that which is his good pleasure and his will is what he predestined us back to which is sunship. Now with that in mind knowing what sunship is which we have studied from Romans 8:15 to17 is to be God's child and to be God's hair um girls you are God's hairs or individually your God's child and God's hair. Um, we zoomed in a lot on the fear part of the equation because being God's child is foundational in God's purpose, but it doesn't come with the sense of fulfillment, accomplishment. Even in the word achievement can be used finishing doing what God has called you to do. So if you are God's child, yes, a very important part, your worship of God, your devotion, that which you maintain on a daily basis, your walk in his character and his nature, but that part of us that is wired for things to get done and is not something some people have and some don't. That's not even true. Is not something that um how do I say is not something um strange to the scriptures as well. The scriptures recognizes the expectation of individuals fulfilling what they are meant to. You could see that in Paul's done severally and something he intended to pass to his prodigy. Particularly I'm referencing Timothy in 2 Timothy 4 and in verse 68 said I'm already be poured out as a drink offering the time of my departure is at hand. He said I have fought the good fight. I finished the race. I've kept the faith. Now there's lit up the crown of righteousness for me with the Lord the judge judge given unto me on that day not only unto me but all our blood is appearing. Now the very verse that preceded I just collected 2 Timothy 4 6 to8 the verse that precedes that is 2 Timothy 4:5 and the last part of 2 Timothy 4:5 says make full proof of your ministry if you're using KJV and KJV says fulfill your ministry. So you can see that he just gave an instruction to to Timothy and then he's trying to show that himself is an example in that regard. He has fulfilled, accomplished, achieved, done, finished that which was given unto him to do. So and this part is where we speak about our inheritance as believers. You know, I think I must have mentioned in the podcast already that we could understand inheritance on three levels. I hope I have. Inheritance is just what is allotted to you or given to you. So in one sense God's spirit given to us is our inheritance. In the second sense, the entirety of creation, what God has made, the entirety of creation is our inheritance. So there is the inheritance of the entire world. This is where we say we are joints with Christ. We are hes of God which is a joint inheritance. But then there's a severe inheritance where each individual can speak of that which they are meant to do. And that's where we are focused on because this is about fulfilling God's purpose for your life. And you must be aware of the inheritance that you have which we can best describe as assignments that the Lord has given to you. All right? And it's in that sense that we speak of um your natural assignment as well as your spiritual assignment. One of the things important is that we mustn't get ourselves we mustn't be on wholesome. You could also say we shouldn't be imbalanced. Um, whatever the case, you know, about our picture and our view of God's purpose, there's usually the tendency based on our um conditioning and wiring before salvation, before spiritual growth in his word that we have certain preferences and tendencies. There are things you just wanted to do on your own. And in that light when you are exposed to the reality of God's purpose where things like the leading of the spirit play a role is the reality of your spiritual assignments you might [snorts] start having you can start to have this battle on your mind you know and it's normal like where we see the resistance to do exactly what the Lord wants you to do and it's not strange we have several people in God's word who went through it even though there were other people who didn't necessarily go through that But you must as a believer recognizing that the spirit of God is in you, know that you can do all that God has called you to do. In fact, one of the most powerful text that helps at work in God's purpose is Philippians 2:3. You know, Paul said, "For God is at work in you." And the first part is the powerful part if we're going to be honest. He says, "God is at work in you both to will." And then he says to do of his good pleasure. So God is at work in you to will. Now that means now notice he said what can you to will and to do of his good pleasure you remember the word good pleasure what he likes is so his very good pleasure what he likes what he wants which is what he has proposed he's working in you to will to want to do it so there is God's working in you to want to do this and that [clears throat] let me put this way there's God's working in you to want to do your natural assignment and your spiritual assignment. You cannot say as a believer, I don't feel like doing it. Now, you could say that from the natural standpoint, but as a matter of your nature, you already want to do that which is of God. So, when you are confronted with a contradiction in your feelings, you have to speak God's word to that contradiction. I want to do this. And it doesn't matter whether you have begun, doesn't matter what what you are going through. You must admit the reality of who you are. this is something you want to do. Having said that, where we are at the moment is that we are focusing on how do we fulfill God's purpose. You know, how do we fulfill God's purpose for our life? How do we carry out our assignments? Of course, if we say how do we fulfill God's purpose, we could say we must maintain the life of devotion, fellowshiping God, and growing. That's so key because it's our devotional life that strengthens us to do our assignments. Something we're going to get to shortly. But our focus here how do we fulfill our assignment is with the example we have been using you are meant to carry a burden but you need the strength to carry the burden. So fulfilling our assignment requires growth. The very first step to doing all that God has called us to do is that must have the growth. We must have the stature that makes it possible to do that which the Lord has called us to do. There is nothing as important as that first step of growth. So I said we should have like two passions, two goals, two uh you know we should have this dual ambition where we are trying to grow so that we can then fulfill the purpose that God has for our lives. And if the growth is the how, we need to study that growth. We've been examining, I'm sorry, from Ephesians and chapter 4, which we said is Paul explaining the disciplehip mandate that the Lord Jesus gave in Ephesians on chapter 4, we if you read Matthew chapter 28, the Lord told the apostles to go make disciples of all nations. And in Ephesians 4:11, we see that that same disciplehip instruction and mandate is being opened up here by Paul. Paul says in Ephesians 4:11 that he himself, talking about the Lord Jesus gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists and the pastoring teachers. So the Lord Jesus gave the leaders of the church. You know today we could use any of the labels in describing people who are leaders. You could say that's my pastor, my apostle, my prophet, my this. Invariably, they are just the leaders of the church. So the Lord gave the leaders of the church, the people that he sent and he gave them for the perfecting of the saints, right? The Lord gave them for the perfecting of the saints. That's verse 12. And that's been our major focus because we are told that he gave them for the perfecting of the saints onto the work of ministry. So as they perfect the saints, the saints do the work of ministry and then again onto the defined of the body of Christ. You know, so the words for the work of ministry, for they defined body of Christ. Uh for the perfection of saints, the three words for there are not the same word in the Greek. The first one is pro towards the perfection of saints. The second one is ace, unto the work of ministry. The third one is ace again which is unto the work of min edifying of the body of Christ. So there is just one reason he gave them which is the perfecting of the saints. We have seen that word is katismos which means they are to be brought they are to bring the saints rather to an end. So we are to be brought to an end by the leadership of the church. Now verse 13 corroborates that point that the reason God gave the leaders is to bring the saints to an end. You'll notice verse 13 says till we all come to the unity of the faith. Right? So they are perfecting us until they to bring us to an end point. And they are perfecting us until we come to unity of the faith, knowledge of son of God, perfect man, measure of the stature of fullness of Christ. Now the interesting thing is that we say this is the destination the Lord wants us to come to. We are seeing four descriptions of that destination and two categories um of those four descriptions. So we are to come to the unity of the faith knowledge knowledge of the son of God again knowledge. Then the third one says perfect man that is not knowledge that is the state of growth of a person. And the last one says the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So we are to be brought to an end point in knowledge as well as an end point in stature or you can say growth. Now I want you to pay attention because I'll be jumping all the way to verse 17. And in verse 17 and in verse 17 we you'll notice something. Let's read let's read through. In verse 17, Paul says, "This I say therefore." And I like something that used to say when you see the word therefore, you need to find out what it is there for. So this therefore is there because he told us about what the church is to do to us. He has told us about what the leaders of the church are to do to us. Now he's saying that the result of what they do to us is such and such. Which is what verse 17 wants to point out. This I say therefore and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk. So the implication of the of the work w of the church is that it's going to affect our walk. walk. So that are no longer walking as those who are without the spirit which is what it means by the rest of the Gentiles is the way of speaking. So as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind. Okay. So he's saying that the manner of work that the Gentiles have have is a product the kind of work that they have is a product of their mind. We shouldn't walk the way they do. They walk this way in the futility of their mind. And that word fertility means emptiness. Something is lacking that should be present on their mind. Having their understanding darkened. Again that's a word of contradiction. There isn't light on their heart. There should be light. There isn't light. Their understanding is darkened. Being alienated from the life of God. All right. All right. This one is talking about their nature and not their mind. So it's pointing to their spirits. It says because of the ignorance that is in them. That's their mind again. Because of the blindness of their heart. Again, heart. And notice he said ignorance. Ignorance is about your mind. Knowledge that should be there isn't there. Blindness of their heart. That's their mind again. Now, so five descriptions and he's showing us that the way you should walk should change once you have believed the gospel because something should have been done to your mind by the church. If the church has addressed your mind, then your work is supposed to follow suit. And this is what we are going to that the growth that we need, the goal of our life, the the growth that we're supposed to have as a result of the work of the church, the transformation we are supposed to have is something that happens on our minds. is not something that happens in our spirit. It happens on our mind and it affects the whole of our life, the whole of our work. So from the next episode, we're going to be opening up what spiritual growth is like for us, which is a matter of our mind and how that growth happens causing us to fulfill God's purpose. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.h. hug. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, [music] God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
