---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-05-25
episode: "Favour in the Newness of Life (Part 1)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o-uFSxxt1oA
---

# Favour in the Newness of Life (Part 1)

Welcome to Pleros podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it.

Welcome back to the Pleros podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Today, we're starting a new subject matter and I think it's probably the most controversial subject matter we can examine. And that is favour in the newness of life, favour in the newness of life. The reason why this subject matter is prone to controversy, prone to errors, prone to extremes is because of certain things that are natural to natural men. Let me put it that way. Certain things that are common to natural men.

Now, when a subject matter as this particularly intersects with things like money, wealth, prosperity, in some people's opinion, we are bound to face extremes because we are not talking about something as simple as healing or health. There is no greed or potential for greed with health. I mean, you can't be greedy about being well. Can't be greedy about being in health, but once we have any discussion that has to do with needs, wants, welfare, money, then we are opening up to the potential for greed, covetousness, and so many other fleshly lusts that are actually spoken against in God's word.

And so, to present a subject matter as this has to be carefully done. There is a possibility of ignoring the subject matter, which would not be honest to God's word. There's also the potential of teaching outright error with this subject matter. And there's also another possibility, which is to present this subject matter without guardrails. And any proper understanding of history proves that even if you teach the right thing on the subject matter such as this without necessarily putting guardrails, there will surely be an abuse. And it seems it's the reason why we see the apostles themselves were loud about guardrails when it comes to things like money and wealth, the Lord Jesus as well.

## Setting the Tone for Favour in the Newness of Life

Now, this teaching is not prosperity teaching. It is favour in the newness of life. Its application is beyond natural, is beyond money, wealth, etc. Its intention is about something else. When we get to the substance of it, I hope you are going to get it. The challenge is I already foresee the danger of someone misinterpreting or extrapolating from what is being taught and applying it in a way that is entirely not intended. And it's for that reason that I'm keen on setting the tone early on.

So again, we're looking at favour in the newness of life. And for the sake of showing that we are not teaching something outside of scriptures, and it's a text we're going to eventually come back to, I like to take us to Luke chapter 2 and verse 52. It's going to be an important text in this subject matter. In Luke 2:52, Luke records as follows, "And Jesus increased in wisdom. And Jesus increased in wisdom." Now, notice the word increased. So it's measurable. There was an increase in wisdom and stature. And in favour with God and men. So he says, "Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favour with God and men."

There is this concept of favour that we find reaching in God's word and it's favour, he says, with God and with men. Maybe we might also look at another text as well like looking at sort of like a conclusion we are going to come back to and even build from as well. But this is not where we are really starting from. I just want to put it out there before we go further. In Acts chapter 2 and in verse 46 and 47 Luke again records: "And continuing daily with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart. Praising God," verse 47, "praising God and having favour with all the people and the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved." So praising God and having favour with all the people and the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved.

Okay, we are not saying something that has no biblical foundation. It's clearly stated in God's word that there is such a thing as favour with God and with men, with all the people. And there is so much to unpack there about what favour is and how exactly it plays out. But what we are going to do to start is to establish what we are saying — favour in the newness of life — to draw that line from the newness of life to favour. That's how do we go from the newness of life to favour? You remember we have seen how we go from the newness of life to healing or health. We have seen how we go from the newness of life to preservation. But how do we go from the newness of life to favour?

## Favour Is Not Prosperity Teaching

Again, I think it bears repeating. We didn't say prosperity in the newness of life. To say there is a guarantee of prosperity in the new life we have in Christ would be extremely dishonest with scriptures because reading the scriptures, we see people who were poor and they were not given any guarantee of wealth despite the fact that they were believers. And it exists in God's word that way. We have people who had needs, were told what to do about it, to give to them. Sometimes we are told about how they were still sacrificial being in that state. We're told about the character we should have towards them, seeing ourselves as heirs of the kingdom. We see no difference because of our status, whether slave or free, whether rich or poor, etc. We must be careful with a message that insists at all costs that people are bound to be wealthy on the premise of the gospel.

Of course, we should also be careful with any message that insists people are bound to be poor on the premise of the gospel. The gospel makes no such submission. All right? The gospel makes no such submission. So, we have to stay faithful to that which is submitted by the gospel and find out what it says. As you would find out as we continue in this study, favour in the newness of life affects both the wealthy and the poor, affects people of all kinds. We would also see how it is something that can be experienced even by someone that does not believe the gospel like we spoke about healing as something that can be received by someone that does not believe the gospel, but at the exercise of faith.

## The Framework of the Newness of Life

All right, but let us get back to it and see this favour in the newness of life. Now, I want us to remember that we got to understanding the newness of life by seeing how we have been called into God's purpose. The reason we are saved is to fulfill God's purpose for our lives. And to fulfill that purpose of God for our life, we need to grow. Remember that what we saw in Luke chapter 2 about increasing in wisdom and favour with God and men. That word is the word for growth, right? To grow, auxano. We said we need to grow. And what we need to grow in, we eventually submitted, is the newness of life, or to grow as new creations.

Now, when we realize we need to grow in the newness of life, we then have begun our study to examine all the realities of the newness of life to see them one after the other, the realities of the newness of life. The first one we saw, as a matter of its importance and also because we are looking from external to the internal, was healing. We said, "What is available in this new life that Christ has won is everything God intended at the beginning that will be effected at the end, except the things that God will effect at the end." So, it's available, except those things that are exclusively going to be effected at the end. And we saw what those things are. Immortality of our body would be effected at the end, and incorruption of matter will be effected at the end.

But, what is available to our body today? We said healing is available to our body. What is available to us relative to matter? We said, "Preservation is available to us now." Something came up when we were looking at preservation, and it came up big. And that was the subject matter of the ministry of angels. Again, whilst we are not going to be going in detail in the ministry of angels, this particular subject matter intersects a whole lot, and the biggest part of it is going to be seen to be executed by the ministry of angels. So, the ministry of angels came up in understanding preservation in the newness of life.

## The Active Working of Goodness Through Angels

Now, if you are paying attention, the two things we have seen as available in the newness of life are dealing with a problem. So, death is active. And we'll find texts like maybe Luke chapter 13 talking about "Behold, this woman was sick and was bound low these 18 years." Or texts like Acts chapter 10:38, "How God anointed Jesus Christ of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil." So, he calls what was happening to people in terms of sickness and disease oppression of the devil. But, even more evils can happen that can be attributed to the working of the enemy. It is Satan at work when such evils happen.

For a general text before we look at specific narratives as we would do later, John 10:10, "the thief cometh not but to steal, to kill, to destroy." Now, make all sorts of arguments about the immediate application of that being false teachers and things like that, but there is no way, just like we say sickness and disease is caused by the reign of sin and death, we can draw that line back to the devil and his court. So, as a general text, we're going to use that framework. The thief cometh not but to steal, to kill, to destroy. I have come that you may have life and you may have more abundantly, or you may have that which exceeds the death that is in the world.

Now, with this said, just like there is an active working of death by the devil and his courts, by the devil and his angels, there is also such a thing as the active working of life, or the active working of goodness by God via the ministry of angels. I'm going to take it again. Just like there can be the active working of death by the devil and his courts, there is such a thing as the active working of life, not just the redemptive working of life, which is there is sickness, you are healed. There is evil, you are preserved. There is that forward active working of goodness by God via the ministry of angels.

## Favour as an Orchestration of Goodness

Now, let's look at one example that, in fact, has nothing to do with wealth. One example is Genesis 24. Abraham sent Eleazar, his servant, to get a wife for Isaac, and he said, "The angel of the Lord is going to go before you." What happens there? That event, or as you will hear often this particular story, that orchestration, that particular orchestration, which is said would happen by the ministry of angels, is favour. It's a favourable situation that happened there. Okay? This is not preservation, this is not deliverance, this is not a redemption, this is an active working of goodness. It's a favourable situation carried out orchestrated by the ministry of angels leading up to Eleazar finding a wife for Isaac.

So, our time has run on us on this particular episode. We're introducing this new subject matter of favour in the newness of life. We're supposed to be patient so that we can carefully make a submission about how we come about favour in the newness of life, but I'm getting to that. That in the newness of life, we don't just have redemptive realities — being healed of sickness and disease, being saved or delivered or preserved from evils in this world. There's the active working of goodness in the newness of life. In an external manner, we're talking about an orchestration. Of course, there's the active working of goodness in us, our nature and character, but in an external manner, that is primarily done by the ministry of angels, and it makes up what we call favour in the newness of life. There's more to it. We're going to see from the next episode, but for now, we're going to bring it to a close here. God bless you. Fulfill God's purpose. See you on the next one.

We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleros.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, His purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pleros community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Pleros_HQ. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in His purpose.
