---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Place of the Gospel in your Life (Part 4)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gGJIgBcIe-4
---

# The Place of the Gospel in your Life (Part 4)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, brothers and sisters, we're on the third episode of the Ple podcast. We are still looking at the place of the gospel in your life. And I do hope by now that you are starting to see the place of the gospel in your life, not as just, oh wow, that oneoff incident of salvation. Maybe for now you might still be seeing it like that since you have just seen reality of God, reality of redemption fulfilled in Christ Jesus. So, but I think right now we're getting into the places you see more details. But just to have a short recap, you know, the gospel claims to be truth. Ephesians 1:13, you trusted after you hear the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. And if the gospel is truth, I said it means two things. It is always right. Number two, you can do nothing against it but for it. Even when you act against it, is still for it because it's just going to take its toll, but in a negative manner towards the one acting against it, like it would in a positive for the one acting for it. Now having said that we said if the gospel is truth you know that's quite some that's quite some claim then we need to see what are the things he says because what he says is right but we need to also see it prove itself right how do we know what is right or what is true how do we prove that and I said it's the same way we prove every other thing which is by observation and [clears throat] reason you know you want to confirm someone's height you could find out by observation and reason you could as Well, take a measuring tip if someone is arguing like this is it. Look at it yourself. Think about it. Can't you see what what number is that? You know, observation and reason can make you know for sure what the truth is. Now, I haven't said that we saw the reality of God being the first thing proven by observation and reason by the gospel that by reason of the finite and continent nature of our world, there must be a cause that is equal or greater, which is God. You know then we proceeded to see the reality of redemption based on the contradiction in the world. Then number three we are going to be seeing the third thing. Now I want you to see the third truth that the gospel claims and is a very important one. Third truth that the gospel claims is the reality of the new creation. So the gospel says now that you are saved by that work of redemption the Lord Jesus accomplished you are now completely a new creation. So you have been saved from death from darkness. What does that mean? Something has happened to you as an individual. This individual that is saved from death and darkness. Now something has happened via the work that Christ has done. He has won the victory over sin, death and darkness. But that work is now being fulfilled in stages. And the very first stage is what is fulfilled in you. So the full defeat of sin, death and darkness is going to be at the consumation of redemption upon the coming of the Lord where creation itself will now be rid of the effects of sin, death, and darkness. And we continue our walk in God's purpose eternally. But right now the implication of redemption is fulfilled in us. That which Christ has done has found his fulfillment in us. Those of us who have believed have received as Romans 1 was saying the righteousness of God. You know, we have been made right. The world still needs to be made right. But we have been made right by what Christ has done. So let me start by looking at the some texts that talk about that. Let's start with Ephesians 5 and verse 8 talking about light and darkness, you know. Then I'm going to look at maybe an example talking about life and death. We have come out of death now into life. So redemption has its first effect on us, the individuals who believe it because humanity is the goal in God's purpose. And in redemption, we are therefore the first recipient of his effect. We are made new. Say Ephesians 5:8. You were once darkness, now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. So we were once darkness, now we are light in the Lord. So there's a change that has happened to our nature. When once darkness, now we are light in the Lord. Now we must be careful. You know, people can just claim, well, I'm light and they can claim that without believing the gospel on their own premise. There's a problem in that. If you're witnessing a contradiction in the world that includes you and you are claiming to be light without salvation, it's I think it's a bit of pride and fully at the same time and it's just on truth altogether. So very importantly, we are light we are new on the premise of redemption in Christ. I'll show you another John chapter 5 and verse 24. So the redemption fulfilled in Christ Jesus is the premise of our is the premise of our being life and light. So John 5 and 24 the Lord Jesus speaking here says most assurely I say to you he who hears my words and believes in me has eternal life has eternal life and shall not come into judgment. Judgment there is about condemnation predition but has passed. He shall not come into judgment. But he has passed from death to life. So the moment you have believed on Jesus, he didn't say you are passing. He said you have passed from death to life. Let me use another text in this regard. Colossians. So you have passed from dead to life. Right? You you once darkness now you're alive. Let's say Colossians 1 and verse 13. Now we are pointing out realities of new creation which is one of the major truths that gospel emphasizes. Colossians chapter 1 and verse 13. Imagine you believe the gospel once and you say, "Well, that's just it. I just don't want to go to hell." And you don't know that the place of the gospel in your life is that of truth and you ignore the truth of being a new creation. They're going to be really costly implications which is that you might end up walking differently from who you have become just because you don't know. We're going to see that there's another implication I think is so key. Like when you believe the gospel and think that is all there is to it, you are missing the point which is why do you even exist? God's purpose. Why are you on earth? And if you go about creating your own purpose with whilst ignoring God's own, that's idolatry. Because if God created the world, he created it for his purpose. You determining your purpose is taking his place. You are setting up yourself as a god. Rather than finding out his purpose and aligning with it because of course it's good. Now Colossians chapter 1 and verse 13 it says he has delivered us from the authority of darkness, the reign of darkness, that bondage of sin and death and darkness. He has delivered us from it and has translated us into the kingdom, the reign of his son. That's the reign of life, the reign of light. So one of the major things you have to recognize is the reality of the new creation is so strongly emphasized. Something has changed about you. The flesh is gone. Darkness is gone. Death is gone. Now I can imagine at this point you're like, "Boy, you're saying I'm a new creation. I still find myself maybe in thoughts, maybe in actions, acts in ways that think that make me think I'm still just the same old person." We are going to get to that. But for now, all I can do is give you a general introduction to the new creation. The last text I'll show you on the new creation before I tell you the next truth, which we may not finish in this session. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 17. That's the text that talks about the new creation. I'm going to show you something important in this text. 2 Corinthians 5:17. It says, "Therefore, if anyone is in Christ is a new creation." The reality of being in Christ is what happens to you when you believe the gospel. I like it how 1 Corinthians 12:13 says. It says by one spirit you were baptized into one body whether Jew or Greek whether slave or free have all been made to drink into one spirit. So you became in Christ by the spirit of God putting you into the body of Christ. It's the work of the spirit. So when you say if anyone is in Christ that's the man who has believed the gospel he is in Christ that individual is a new creation. And notice is being a new creation means old things have passed away. Didn't say they are passing away is a challenge we face today. There are people that will assume well God is working on me. I'm work in progress. Or you're talking about spiritual growth. That's correct. But if you're talking about your nature, that's wrong. You already completely as God is or as Christ is in nature. You are a partaker of the divine nature. We can't get into much of this now. It's just an introduction. So old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. So if you say the old things that passed away, how many of them passed away? All of them. All old things passed away. That is why all things have become new. The next verse says, "All things are of God." So the moment you believe the gospel, you are a new creation. Old things have passed away. They aren't passing away. They have passed away and all things have become new. You know, at this point, I think you wonder like at salvation, nothing in the natural changed when someone when someone gets saved. I mean, your body remains the same. But that's because you're thinking about yourself in just one way. There's the dual reality of humanity and I'll show you that quickly before I leave this point. See 2 Corinthians 4 and:e 16. So there's a dual reality of humanity. You must be aware of this something we examine very well later because it's very important for your fulfillment of God's purpose. I'm just laying some foundation. 2 Corinthians 4:16 it says therefore we do not lose heart though our outward man perishes or is perishing. That's your body. Our inward man is being renewed day by day. Now, let's be honest. Your inward man is not literally being renewed day by day. He's just making a contrast. Your outward man is perishing. He's growing old. He's decaying etc. But he's getting corrupted. The inward man is being renewed means it never ages. It's not growing older. And the inward man of course is talking about our spirit. So that outward man will later be called a tent in 2 Corinthians 5 and1. So within the 2 Corinthians 4:16 and 2 Corinthians 4:17, Paul had made a distinction between the outward man and the inward man. So what became new at the point you became a new creation [clears throat] is the inward man. If any man is in Christ is a new creation. Your inward man is entirely new. Your inward man used to be the old man, used to be the flesh. That's completely gone. used to be darkness. Used to be death. Now it's completely light, completely life, completely new, completely of God, completely of Christ. That's who you are. You are new. You need to get that deep into your heart. You're new. If you can just where you are, say, I'm new. I'm new. I'm new by the spirit of God. And now I'll hang it there for now. The reality of the new creation. And I'm going to start to tell you about the reality of God's purpose. Now, this one is important introduction as well, but it's what's going to lead us into our study after. Now, in fact, I might wrap up here and when we get to the reality of God's purpose in the next episode, I'm going to be focusing so much on I'm going to start a fresh like a new teaching which will be on God's purpose going forward because I told you I'll show you five truths. reality of God, reality of redemption fulfilled in Christ, reality of the new creation, reality of God's purpose, and reality of growth that there is this reality of growth substantial that you need to have and experience. Now, what is God's purpose? Why are you on earth? Why are you on earth? Why do you have life in you, breath in you? Why were you born? You just found yourself here. You didn't even know the day you were born. Then some seven or eight years later, you sort of like something just kicked in along the way like what's even going on in this world? They just gave birth to me. I've been playing around since what's happening like this. Like some serious rationality just kicking in. I don't know about you. I was at that point and I asked the question like wow what happened like you gave birth to me then how did I even get you gave birth to me then I said someone gave birth to you then we keep going on and on like that. How does that go then until God? Who gave birth to God? I mean I didn't have the sense that God is self-existent. Then like my mind was just roaming around like what's the point? Why am I here? What am I even doing? You might have thought about it. Now, sometimes we get vague answers like, "Oh, don't worry. God's purpose is you're going to find out what you feel like doing. What's your passion? What do you really feel hungry about doing?" But these answers are vague. We sometimes lack the confidence that this is objectively the truth about God's purpose. We can sometimes think, well, maybe, but who knows? But there's an objective answer to what God's purpose is. is. &gt;&gt;
