---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 11)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=APPlUsxFOQc
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 11)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome to another episode of the Player Rose podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And I may add for your life. By now, I'm sure you know what God's purpose is. In this particular session, we are continuing our examination of how to fulfill God's purpose. We can say we're looking at growth. We can say we're looking at spiritual growth. How to fulfill God's purpose. You should recall, we've seen that God's purpose is sunship. He wants you to be his child and to be his. He has fulfilled that by redemption if you have believed the gospel. You are God's child and you are God's he and as his child he wants you to maintain his life of fellowship with him to walk in his nature and his character. But as is here, he wants you to carry out the assignment he has given to you. And he has a spiritual assignment for you as well as a natural assignment. None should be neglected. But then even if we know what God's purpose is, we know the way it's supposed to play out. It's like the example we have been using. You know you're supposed to bear this he every burden carry this heavy load a distance you can look at it and say yeah I can imagine that in my mind like I'm supposed to walk this distance with this load and this is the finish point oh beautiful but boy I can tell you for free I can't do that now because I need to get the fitness I need to get the growth I need to get the strength I need to get the stature I need to get the endurance to be able to bear this burden and that's what we're looking at like how do we carry out God's purpose how do we bear the load weight the burden ing of his purpose for our lives. Rather than beat yourself up knowing that, oh boy, like I fall short of doing exactly what I should do and so on and so forth, you have to do what Paul says. Paul says you need to know and you need to reckon. The Lord Jesus as well said you need to be discipled. If the Lord thought that you could carry out his will and his purpose for your life without disciplehip, why will he tell you to be discipled? So I've said the assumption that you can afford to do the will of God without disciplehip is not true. You sort of it's like self deceit. You would end up doing the will of God with the spirit of the flesh. I may say it that way. You get what I mean? With the mindset of the flesh. You'd end up doing it with the disposition of the flesh and that's not going to be healthy for you. So I encourage you to take very seriously the place of disciplehip. I believe in one of the episode I've recommended a ple perfecting course is our open course to everyone to go through the kind of disciplehip that the lord expects of every believer the outline of disciplehip the pattern the process of disciplehip is not hidden you listen to the teaching there's one of I think that's when you get to level two the very first teaching would give you a very important defense of the exact framework scheme of work that you need for your growth that was laid down by the apostles You need to take disciplehip seriously. Paul will call it the perfecting of the saints. And that perfecting is to receive the knowledge of the word and then to come to the stature that pertains to that knowledge. Now the knowledge of the word is expansive. So there's an entire scope of what we need to know. But there's yet the final focus if I may call it that of what we need to know. You remember we saw Ephesians chapter 4 after telling us we need the unity of the phrase. We are like boy that's a lot of things to learn. And then by the time he gets to the same, he gets later on in the same chapter to Ephesians 4:20. He says, "We need to know the truth that is in Christ," you're like, "Yeah, that's a lot." And he says that you should put up concerning your former conversation, the old man with gross corrupt according to deceitful. It shows that the end point of all our learning is the new creation. The end point of all our studies is the new creation. There is not a more important truth than that. I like how Peter says it. Peter in um 2 Peter 1:4 says God has given unto us exiddiving great and precious promises. The way it actually was written originally like in the Greek is he has given us the greatest promise. He used the superlative of the word great which is meto the word mega has the superlative. So this is the greatest promise. So we can say he has given us the greatest promise possible. He has given us the greatest promise. You can say the greatest promise in scripture. You can say the greatest promise existentially possible which is that we should be partakers of the divine nature and that is fulfilled now. You are now a partaker of divine nature. There is nothing bigger than that. You have God's nature. Your spirit and God's spirit are fused as one. You are a partaker of the divine nature. You are one spirit with the Lord. 1 Corinthians 6:17. You know another text I love in this regard is Colossians 2:9 and 10. It says verse 9 that in Christ in him goes the fullness of divinity bodily. Some translations use the word godhead. But the word actually is the noun of the adjective of God. The word God is theos. The adjective of God is divine. So God divine. Divine is what is of God. Then he used the noun toot which is divinity. So in Christ dwells the fullness of divinity bodily and you are completing him. So I understand why people say oh is in Christ Jesus we understand the godhead the trinity. But really that's not what that text was saying. that text is talking about for the first time we are seeing an human that embodies divinity entirely and it's to be the pattern of those who are to have this image of God. So verse 10 says, "And you are complete in him." Well, we are a complete replica. We are a complete, we are not embodying him to a degree. Now we are not him. By status is self-existent. We are created but we are completing him. That reality that he has is now has as well. But the point is we need to grow to do that. And growth is first knowledge. The knowledge of the new creation. But the second part of growth we started to see from Romans 6 is to reckon. When you know Paul says you need to reckon your knowledge doesn't suffice. He says likewise you also reckon yourself which means you are firm. You take into account. Another word he uses present yourselves. Present your members as instruments of righteousness. In Romans 12 he uses the same word present parist which means to stand beside. Said therefore I beseech you brethren by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy acceptable unto God which is your reasonable service. So present present present stand beside your body. How many times you do that? You just say, "I'm a new creation. I'm the righteousness of God in Christ. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to God. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to God. I'm no longer in the flesh. I'm in the spirit. I'm a new creation. I'm a partaker of the divine nature. The fullness of divinity is in me. I'm one spirit with the Lord. The fullness of Christ is in me." What you are doing when you are saying that you affirming is you are standing beside yourself as who you are. Whether you say it or not, you are still that. saying it is affirming it is reckoning that is presenting yourself that way and that act of presenting yourself reckoning presenting affirming who you are it does something to you and I can't wait to show you this I want you to see Romans 12:1 and2 it's very core you need to understand it so Romans 12:1 says I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy acceptable unto God which is your reasonable service that reasonable service is quite a word. Paul is packing a lot of things into that. He's saying this act of presenting yourself is your regular logical worship. It should feature as a regular part of your life. A prayer life that does not include this regular affirmation of who you are. It's missing a lot. Something is definitely wrong. Let me just say something. When the Lord said, and he did a couple of times, pray that you enter not into temptation. He said that when they were in Gethsemane towards his crucifixion, but also you could see the same thoughts in what we call the Lord's prayer or our father prayer in Matthew chapter 6 when he said lead us so part of the prayer writes praying to the father says lead us not into temptation but deliver us from the evil one. What is he saying? It means we are praying about our character. When we are in prayer feminine we are because the fully developed form of that prayer when we get to the epistles is what we are seeing Paul talk about. we are presenting ourel it's not like we are begging God don't lead us in temptation like God wants to lead us in temptation the language there is reflecting the very common way of I don't want to complicate matters but it's a very common way of speaking from God's sovereignty even on matters that he has given us free will about there it's a very common way of the scriptures speaking where he still you can still speak of as though God were responsible for even things you are to do and that's just recognizing his foundational status about the world, our ability to do any other thing. Anything anyone does can still be held, he can still be held accountable for it because he's the one that sets up the world in such a way that things like that should cannot. So, please just forget about that if it's going to confuse you. We'll get to it some other time. But for now, when he says, "Do not in temptation." When we get to the epistles, he's saying, "Do not let sin re in your mortal body that you should obey it in his loss." That's Romans 6 and 12. And he didn't say, "Talk to God that you should not allow sin to re your mortal body." But in the prayer, the Lord's prayer is like lead us not into temptation but deliver us from the evil one. Because what happens in prayer is in prayer we are making an affirmation. We are having a recognition of the power of God for us of the reality of the new creation to walk in victory over the flesh, over sin, over death. So in this fully developed form in the place of prayer, we are feminine we are. And that causes us not to walk in the flesh. We we we don't yield to temptation. There's temptation for evil and for sins and for wrongs. We rather walk in the spirit. We are empowering ourselves in the place of prayer. We edifying ourselves. Romans 12 and verse two. So after he said present yourself that's your reasonable worship. Verse two says do not be conformed to this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may be able to prove that which is the good, acceptable and perfect will of God. Oh boy. Do you see that? He says don't be conformed to this world. Do you get that? That means if you don't do this, if you don't do this job of presenting yourself, you are succumbing to the influence of this world. Should I say you are succumbing? I think that's even like it might seem like you have control over it. Like you you have a choice. If you are not presenting yourself, you are invariably choicelessly when we say conformed to the world. There are no other options. If you are not actively presenting yourself as you are in Christ, you are left with no other choice. You only are yielding to the single option left which is that of confirmation to the world. You are being conformed to the world if you are not presenting yourself. So when it says be not conformed to this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Do you see? So it says but be transformed by reneing from verse one which is your presenting yourself is the renewing of your mind. Now there's a mistake we could make that the renewing of our mind is in knowledge but knowledge doesn't transform our minds. Knowledge enlightens our mind and that is something to desire. Ephesians 1, Paul prayed for them that the eyes of their understanding may be enlightened. But enlightenment is not transformation. You knowing that you're a new creation. At that point, it's like, boy, I'm a new creation. You are so glad. Do you know what? You might still be a hearer only. We're going to see that in James. I think we'll get to that in the next episode. You might just be a hearer only. Like you really believe you are a new creation. You are so glad. You didn't know before. Now you're partic of the nature. You're like, "Boy, glory to God. Thank God for the privilege of this. But even at that, even at that, despite knowing that you're a new creation, you are brand new, you're particular of the divine nature, that knowledge does not give to you transformation. So the renewing of the mind there is the effect of presenting ourselves. The renewing of the mind here is is reckoning ourselves. It is the continuous refreshing of the mind. Every time you take that stand of faith, I am a new creation. You are refreshing your mind. And it is transforming your life. It is transforming your heart. It is transforming you. Okay. Now this is the funny part. It is actually transforming a part of your mind as well. That's why I said we need to see all the things that the scripture says happens on our mind. Our mind is also where we have our memory. But our mind is also where we consider things. And yet the same mind if we don't unpack all the realities of the mind we may we may get somehow we may get overwhelmed like okay they said this is happening on the mind. I'm thinking of my mind. I'm reasoning on my mind. But at the same time, I am renewing my mind. And yet my mind also is what is getting transformed because my spirit is already like this. My spirit is not what's getting transformed. It's already one spirit with the Lord. So what are all these things happening on my mind? We will get to that. I'll make that a separate study. So after this, we'll probably look at the mind of man and look at all that entails so that you can understand what affects your walk in God's purpose. But for now, I hope you get the point that transformation happens by renewing of your mind. Renewing of your mind is presenting yourself, reckoning yourself. Every reckoning of yourself you do refreshes your mind and then transforms your mind. Let me say it this way. It transforms that reckoning part of your mind. And I'm going to use a word to describe that part in the next episode. So it transforms your mind. Every time you're familiar, it transforms your mind that now makes you walk in the word, makes you walk in the truth, makes you walk in the spirit, makes you walk in the purpose of God for your life. That transformation happens by the affirmation of who we are. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
