---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "Faith Stand (Part 2)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJStpnu6RVo
---

# Faith Stand (Part 2)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Blush podcast. We are still serving you your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose and we have presently studying on the faith stand. Of course, we have seen a lot of things that led up to this. We have seen what God's purpose was is. We have seen the road map of God's purpose. We have seen what it takes to fulfill God's purpose, which is growth or maturity that happens by disciplehip, perfection of the saints. We have seen that that growth happens on the mind and we studied all the aspects of the mind. We saw that one part of the mind particularly is responsible for our work, our conduct, our action, our doing the word and that part of the mind has become our central focus became rather I should say focus at the end of the former episodes on the mind of man. Addressing that part of our mind is why we are now studying what we are looking at now which is the faith stand. I ran through all of that quickly so that we can make very good progress in this episode. We know that it's one thing to have conviction on our mind and another thing to have the reckoning of our conviction on our mind or the consciousness of our conviction on our mind. And a critical text in this regard is Romans 6. Another one is James 1. I want us to go to Romans 6 today. So we can by Romans 6 quickly or down to Romans 12 to then establish certain things. Now in Romans chapter 6 you recall that in verse three Paul had said you guys already know certain things do you not know which is rhetorical that as many of you as baptized into Christ have put on Christ and Romans 6:6 says knowing this that the old man was crucified with Christ like you already know this in Romans 6 and verse 9 says knowing that Christ having been raised from the dead dies no more death no longer has dominion over him you can see three times he's assuming and affirming the knowledge that they already have but by time he gets to verse 11 he switches gears and he says Likewise, you also reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin. So he's not saying you already know this or don't you know this. He's not concerned about their knowledge anymore. He's rather focused on what they are doing with that knowledge. So it's one thing that you know is another thing entirely that you are reckoning in the light of the knowledge of God's word that you have. When it says reckon yourselves to be dead to sin and alive to God, we've seen that word reckon is the word in the Greek logismi that means to take account to put into account. I've given you the example of an accountant. In an accountant in a business does not account for things that are not there. There must be the reality that is present and at play in a situation in a place in a store in a business and then the accountant records them takes account of them or puts the inventory down. So it's or takes note of the inventory. So it's one thing that you have love in you. It's another thing that you have righteousness in you. It's another thing that you have the power of God to heal in you. But is a different ball game that you are actually reckoning it. And the reckon years as an ongoing fact to reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin and alive to God. You already know you are dead to sin. But hey, reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin and alive unto God. And it's in that breath he says therefore because you do this do not let sin re in your mortal body that you should obey it in his laws. Is by doing this that you are fulfilling that therefore do not let s your mal I've harmed you with what to do recon yourself there to sin alive to God and therefore do not let sin in your m bodies that you obey in his laws and he would you would retreat himself in verse 13 and do not present yourselves. So he's saying the same thing again in this case uses a different word rather than use the word record he uses the word present and that word present is key and core to what we're about to study the faith stand the word present it says do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin now that word present in the Greek is what parismic paristic is from two words essentially we have the word para that means beside and we have the other word that means to stand is saying Present yourself par beside and is to stand. What does that mean? Stand beside yourselves. You stand beside parist. You know when you are standing beside something, a person, a thing, a reality, you are not creating it. You are not making it so. You are simply reckoning, recognizing, affirming. You are standing beside it. Let's say there's a debate about a particular laptop and someone says that's a MacBook. Another says no that's not a MacBook and the person says no that is a MacBook like can't you see can't you see that this is a MacBook shows the logo maybe shows certain functionalities and features the person is pointing to all the realities is like when 6 says acknowledging every good thing that is you in Christ he's like hey this is in my book see this see that see this I'm a new creation can't you see this is who I am in Christ it is there God's word is true of what Christ has done have been made entirely brand new. So it's very important that we have that appreciation of the reality of who we are. He says we are to present ourselves. Present yourself stand beside yourself as dead to sin and stand beside yourself as alive to God. Don't present yourself as an instrument of unrighteousness to sin. Rabbi says present yourself to God as being alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. So you say things like I am the righteousness of God. The only thing I can do is righteousness. I can't do unrighteousness. I can't do ungodly, wrong, evil acts. I can't walk in the flesh. I can't walk in hate. I can't walk in selfishness. I can't walk in strife. I can't walk in envy. I can't walk in division. I am born of God. There is that disposition that is expected of the believer. You should have that disposition as a believer where you are presenting yourself the way you are. Interesting. The word present comes up yet again in the same material. By the time you get to verse 19, he said, "I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves of uncleanness and lawlessness." So he says, "Before our salvation, we used to present our members before we got saved, we used to present ourselves as slaves of uncleanliness and lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness." So because you presented yourself as such and it's funny it says you present yourself as some cleaners and nolessness leading to motherlessness which means one of the ways you they were presenting themselves that way is something like I don't know why I keep doing this. So the more you are reinforcing things about seeing and unrighteousness as your identity or your person then you are strengthening it for more. He now says you need to switch girls. So now present your members as slaves of righteousness for holiness. So he's presenting yourself as new that is going to cause you to walk as such. This word present comes up again in Romans chapter 12. Romans and chapter 12 standing beside yourself standing beside the reality of it comes up again in Romans and in chapter 12. Romans 12 and verse one it says I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of God that you present your bodies. Look at that. That you present your bodies and it just means you present yourself your person. So you present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. It just means your rational, logical, or there's also a debate for your spiritual worship. He's saying the logical thing you ought to do now that you are brand new. Your nature has changed. Glory to God. You have a new life in Christ. We thank God. You are now a new creation. Fantastic. But you having that conviction is not enough. The logical thing that ought to follow from that conviction is that you should present your bodies. You should present who you are. You should stand beside who you are. It's the logical step that follows is your logical worship. He says present your bodies a living sacrifice who only acceptable to God. This is your logical worship. That's the rational step for you to take. That's what follows after you're becoming a new creation. Stand beside yourself, present yourself. And I want you to see how he speaks about this in verse two of the same Romans 12. Verse two then says, "And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may be able to prove that which is the good, acceptable, and perfect will of God." He's saying, "Present your bodies." And what verse two is simply doing is that verse two is reiterating what verse one has already established. Do not be conformed to this world. So if you are not presenting yourself is saying invariably you are being conformed to this world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. So renewing your mind here cannot be putting in new information on your mind. Your conducts don't come from new information and that has already been established in this particular book as well. In Romans 6 is clear that people can know but they are not walking which is why they have to reckon which is why they have to present. If transformation is what accounts for your walk then transformation is not a matter of renewing your mind. I want you to think about it that transformation happens by renewing the mind. But yet there is something else that knowledge does. Mullet enlightens the mind. If you recall Ephesians and chapter one when Paul was speaking and he was praying for the saints in Ephesus in Ephesians and in chapter one and verse 17, he said that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the father of glory may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him. So he's praying for them to have clarity to receive the revelation of him. So in the knowledge of him, so as the knowledge of God's word is presented to them, they have clarity and they see God's revelation in it. So that the eyes of your understanding being enlightened you may know. So what knowledge does is knowledge enlightens. Knowledge is not renewing the mind is enlightening the mind. Renewing is a continuous refreshing that is a matter of presenting or reckoning yourself which is what brings about the transformation that causes us to walk. You are going to walk as God desires we should in his purpose and fulfill it. We are going to walk in all the realities of God's nature that we have is not going to be a question of an information overload on our mind. Even if it's not an overload an information replicion on our mind that is we have complete information on our mind. It's not it's not how much we know that accounts for our work. What we know is important to our work. It enlightens our mind. But it is transformation that makes for our work. Let me put it another way. It's possible for a child, say one year old child to have the ability to do something but lack the capacity to do it. So the ability is already present. They have the nature, they have the hand that can maybe you can use your hand to carry a heavy load. So the hand is the ability for carrying things. But the capacity is not present at that age because some development is needed. They need to be fed. they need to exercise themsel develop to such a point where they can do that. So it's one thing that the ability is present is another thing that the capacity is there and in this case also it's one thing that the nature is there the knowledge is there is another thing that the growth the transformation that makes you able to do what you're supposed to do is there and we are saying that that transformation happens by what is called renewing of the mind or presenting oneself which is to stand beside oneself what I want to conclude on today is that this act of standing which is called a reasonable worship and I'm going to come back to that statement later is an act of faith Let's see 2 Corinthians 1 and verse 24. We'll wrap up with this text and we'll take off from here going forward. In 2 Corinthians 1 and verse 23, Paul said, "Moreover, I call God as witness against my soul. That to spare you, I came no more to cry. Not that we have dominion over your faith, but our fellow workers for your joy. For by faith you stand." So moreover I call God as witness against my soul that to spare you I came no longer to Corinth not that we have dominion over your faith but our fellow workers for your joy. Do you notice the last part? For by faith you stand. So every time they are talking to believers to stand beside who they are to affirm who they are to renew their minds to reckon. It's actually a stand of faith. It is by faith that we stand. So that instructions to stand is to have a faith stand. And we're going to take up from here in the next episode. See you there. We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
