---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 8)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j1j77b5t_1E
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 8)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Plleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We're looking at the mind of man. We've seen a number of things. I think we are really getting into it now. And I do hope that you are following through and learning. So we've seen what God's purpose is sunship. He wants us to walk as his child at this. We have seen the road map of his purpose. How to go about that journey. But we've seen what it takes to fulfill it. How do we fulfill God's purpose? It requires growth. Then a sorted out those details. We came to the conclusion that the mind is so central to the fulfillment of God's purpose because growth happens on the mind. And for that reason, we have been studying the mind of man. But it's really not just been a study on the mind of man. We could say it's a study on the reality of man, the entirety of who man is. Because the mind of man, if it's the reason for our growth, makes us ask questions about our spirit. What about our spirit? If your mind is the issue is the determinant of our fulfillment of God's purpose. What place does our spirit hold? And of course, we have arrived at the conclusion that our spirit is one with Christ is fused entirely with God. We have the very life and the nature of God. Our spirit is in a complete perfect and divine state. It cannot be improved upon. We have seen all of these details. But having said all of that, we still must bring everything home to what's this interaction that takes place between our spirit and our mind. Now what we did is to note two texts that help us to entirely understand man. We said 1 Thessalonians 5:23 is an important text where he said may the God of peace sanctify you completely which is simply the word sanctify you all the way to the end which is preserve you all the way to the end and may your whole spirit soul and body I like that word whole. So that's a different word. Your whole is talking about the entirety which points to like is pointing out maybe parts or details about your person. So may your whole your entire spirit, soul and body be preserved blameless until the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. So he says man is spirit, soul and body. Then whilst we typically understand soul in that text to be mind, we said we must not rush to the conclusion that soul simply means mind because it doesn't. It doesn't as a matter of the meaning of the word inherently andologically that means the history of the word doesn't mean mind. There might be instances where it's used very rare if at all. It even have to be a bit forced. There might be instances where it's used might be forced to mean mind by implication in some text but the word itself doesn't mean mind either byplication in scripture. I know that there's one more text where we try to draw out the meaning of that word to be mind from. We try to draw out that word as meaning mind from which is James 1 and 21. But it says able to save your souls. But that text itself we can use it as mind in application. Really it's talking about the change of a person's life. Your life would change. So soul there is about your life changing from what it was before to what God wants you to be by doing the word. Please I help you to understand the application of soul as mind. Whether the meaning is understood just to say man is a spirit soul is a body still works. If you understand that man is a spirit has a mind and lives in a body still works. But you would face challenges with certain text. So do not forget that. Now having said all of that, we proceed in our study. We've seen that we can best on the second text we saw 2 Corinthians 4:16. It says we can better understand man as inward man and outward man. And that will be an exhaustive understanding of man. Even though it might require some study, some further studies to spell out what is in our outward man as well as what is in the inward man. But to understand man as inward man as an outward man is an awesome understanding. The inward man we said is the spirit with a mind like we can think of the outward man as a body with a brain. And yes this particular episode I want us to use some illustrations to make it clearer to show possible par parallels between our understanding of the outward man and our understanding of the inward man. and by so doing help us to appreciate how to grow as believers. Let's just recall another text Luke 16. We saw the where there was Lazarus and the rich man. These are men. So they have the inward and the outward man. Then the outward man was gone and their inward man continued and their inward man still had a mind. So after the rich man was gone to Hades without his body, without his house man, he could recollect things. Abraham told him, "Son, remember that your lifetime blah blah blah." Then he told Abraham that, "Oh, I have five brothers. Let Lazarus go do this." I don't know why he keeps sending Lazarus things. You know, you got to be careful. This this his mindset was the same. Kind of funny. The mind remained the same even after he was without his body. This picture of the body with a brain and the spirit with a mind is one awesome way of appreciating and understanding ourselves as humans. There's a whole lot of overlap there and I know some people may have a lot of questions that we cannot get into in this episode and maybe not even on the podcast but it will come up maybe some other time as form of question and answer sometime down the line. But when we speak about man as inward man and outward man let's talk about the outward man. So let's assume one takes a naturalistic standpoint and we don't regard man as having a spirit with a with a mind. Now we have had situations I don't know if you have read about them of feral children. Children who were probably abandoned after birth that is these are humans abandoned after birth and then had their entire growing up among certain animals. maybe an oranguton. I forgot what other animals we have had examples of in the past in history. Now, feral children grow up in the wild. So, they don't grow up amongst humans. They would not learn language like we do. They would not learn to walk on their feet as we do. They would tend to have the same traits, jump around just like the people that they around, whether it's monkeys or ranguton or whatever it may be. I mean it's really terrible if you have read the accounts it's unfortunate there are few instances of that but their brain is wired I don't think their brains by virtue of not being around other humans developed to or I don't think the the rationality expected of a human particularly metaphysical reasoning happens to them as it should because I mean language is they they short out of language as well if I'm correct I I can't fully remember but let's just take it that they see themselves as For feral children, if you want to check it up, it's f e r a l. You could check it. Let's assume that they are around monkeys and they grow up thinking that they are monkeys. They just jump like that and so on and so forth. Their body is that of a human being, but their mind is entirely that of a monkey. They only think of themselves as such. They jump like that. They feed as such. Their body trains itself to survive. things that one who is raised without certain gems and exposure will normally not survive or will be more predisposed to being hot from but they are going through all of that their mind or their brains let's say in this case is wired conditioned like that but their bodies are different they the body of a human being what we are witnessing is what happens a lot with believers spiritually where their spirit is one with God they have they are one spirit with the Lord they are partakers of the divine nature Their nature is divinity just like feral children their nature is humanity but they are raised in the wild. So believers who have been raised in the world which is which is the wild may still have that same mind even after repentance recognition of who they are and they are unable to reconcile with the reality of who they are and this is where spiritual growth comes in. In the natural we have few feral children but in the spiritual it is the opposite because everyone gets saved from the wild from the world and then we come into Christ from there. Now fortunately if you are born into a Christian home it might be a lot easier but people are we are notwithstanding I mean you are still coming out from the reign of sin and death. We are coming from the wild into you know the faith the family of God. The mind has been wired and the mind has been conditioned. The mind has been trained to certain things and now you need to retrain, reprogram, rewire, restructure, retach your heart, your heart, your mind after the truth of God's word. And this is what the apostles, what the Lord are trying to show us about our growth. If we are going to fulfill God's purpose, it depends on our mind. The feral child is just as human as any other human. Two hands, two legs, two eyes, a rational, a brain with rational capacity like any other human but a background, a conditioning that is contrary to condition of living of humans. It's the same thing with the believer upon salvation. The nature of God in all its ramifications. You have the status of a new creation. You have the nature and character of a new creation. You have the supernatural abilities of a new creation. but a mind that is fresh off from the wild, from the world, wired in that regard. And this is what the church has to address. Certain things must happen to that mind. You recall when we're looking at how to fulfill God's purpose where we're talking about growth, we said first we must receive the knowledge of the word. Our minds must be enlightened. That's the first thing that must happen to the mind. But something else must happen to the mind. We're looking at renewing of the mind that brings about transformation to then fulfill purpose. So the mind is the big deal. The spirit is changed completely. It's now divine. But the mind needs to match up with the reality of God's spirit. Tell you that this is what we need to do when we say the podcast is your daily dose of God's word transforming to fulfill God's purpose. We are getting to the core of that. You need that transformation that makes you able to fulfill God's purpose. Of course, this is the work of the local church alongside surrounding ourselves daily with the word to help us walk in God's purpose. But we cannot do without the role of God's word on our mind to transform us. There is no other way around it. God's word must rewire, recondition our mind after God's purpose. So at this juncture, I want to start to talk about so what does soul mean? What does spirit mean? Particularly because when we talk about the mind, a word comes up in Ephesians 4:23 where he says you should be renewed in the spirit of your mind. In the in this episode I'll start and in the next episode we'll start to see what soul and spirit means in a very simplified form. We have done studies on it that will be out maybe later that explain soul and spirit in detail maybe running across biblical text every text to see what they mean. But the word spirit in the Greek which is the word numa in the Hebrew the word roach simply means wind. And the choice of that word to describe certain realities of humanity of God as well as of angels is for a reason because the word rouach or the word numa wind has this idea of something that is unseen but that has a seen effect like the wind. So if the wind is blowing yes the wind is blowing but you can't see what the wind is that is blowing. The wind is blowing but you can see his effect. You can't see this thing called wind. Now I know we might get into the science of it and be able to explain it out why you should not expect to see it in the first place and so on like the here but that's the point. There is something happening actively that we can't see the cause but we can see its effect and that's what that's what inspires the choice of word numa rouach and its application to god god is spirit to angels and to man there is this unseen reality that is real I ever so and having a seen effect it's unseen but it's having a sin effect that's the choice of the word spirit we'll look at what soul means in the next session then I'll show you why the word spirit can be used for the mind in a way and what hidden man of the heart is. And at this point, we're getting into the core, which is the aspects of the mind that we need to know to walk in God's purpose. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
