---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 17)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kJHhslhBjyE
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 17)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome to another episode of the Pleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. We are looking at the mind of man and today we are looking at the consciousness part of the mind. Like we want to zoom in on that part we have been talking about and really see like what the scripture says about it. See text of scripture around it and explaining so strongly to us. We started out by calling it the reckoning part of our mind, the presenting part of our mind. So the reconing part of our mind, the presenting part of our mind, what else can we call it? The affirming part of our mind and it is not the knowing part. It is what we know we get to recon to affirm. So it is this other part and we are zooming in with the word consciousness because we want to look at a particular word conscience that best describes that word. But recall that we're looking at God's purpose. We have seen God's purpose is sunship. We want to fulfill that purpose that God has for our life. We want to live our life every single day for his will, for his glory, to serve him, to fulfill his purpose that he has for us. We have seen the road map of that purpose. And we have seen that the only way we can fulfill his purpose as we walk that path that he has set for us is by growth. And this growth happens on our mind. So the growth is not happening in our spirit. Our spirit is our nature. It is fixed, permanent, unchanged, unchanging. It's in a complete, perfect and divine state. And it's just as Christ is is as God is. We are one spirit with the Lord. God is in us and we are in God. And that's talking about the nature that we have. So with all of this in mind, then it's important for us to see if the growth is not happening on our spirit because our spirit cannot grow and our spirit cannot be developed. The growth is happening on our mind. How exactly does our mind operate? What are the aspects of our mind? How does he operate? We could say almost like what are the compartments of our mind? But our mind is one mind. It's just that there are these different aspects there. So you might think about them in a compartmentalized way but it's one mind as the scripture will present it. But all these things that going on there. One of the text we used to explain this entire dynamic of man or the d or that we used to explain the dynamics of man I should say is 2 Corinthians 4:16 that talked about us as inward man and outward man. We could also reference 1ians 5:23 but 2 Corinthians 4:16 is a more simpler way of explaining it. And we said the inward man is our spirit with our mind and then the outward man is our body with our brain. So the outward man is perishing which would explain for example we are living out the reality of our spirit through our bodies. And if the outward man is perishing you could find people who can experience deterioration in their brain and it can place a limitation on the activity of their mind. Because for the believer in Christ, we take as a matter of revelation that there's a spirit with the mind unaffected. Even if there's a limitation placed on the person's body, including the brain. If we have our spirit with our mind, we need to examine that because it's the core of who we are. In fact, in that same material, second Corinthians, Paul describes the body, the outward man, the body with the brain as our tent, as our cloth. He describes the body with the brain as a building. is essentially saying like people have said that the real man is the inward man that the real man is the inward man. Now in Luke 16 when the Lord was speaking he brought this reality of man this dual reality of man as inward and outward to the four. He said in Luke 16 that there was Lazarus and the rich man at that point they had both their inward and outward man. Then they both died physically. They left behind their outward man on the earth and went into a deal with their inward man. We saw that their inward man had an operational mind. In fact, the realities of that mind remained the same. They did it didn't change. They still had the same memory. They had the same tendencies, behavior, consciousness, if you want to use that word. Let me quickly say at this juncture that there is a use of consciousness by certain philosophies that is not what I'm talking about and I don't need to give up the word because certain people have chosen to use it in a certain way. I'm using it in the biblical sense where we see the word conscience reckoning which implies consciousness both words. And I'll show you when we get to the word conscience. But let's hold on. I was mentioning when they were with their inward man, that's Lazarus and the rich man with their mind. We saw the rich man. He was reasoning about his condition and was seeking a solution. But Abraham called him to his memory. So we are seeing that there's the reasoning aspect of the mind. There's the memory aspect of the mind. Abraham told him remember that in your lifetime you had this and that. And we have seen those two aspects of the mind. Another place where we see the dynamics or the aspects of the mind come up is Luke 24 and verse 45 where the Lord opened their understanding that they may comprehend the scriptures. He was by his explanation removing the blinders of their understanding that they may comprehend put together the scriptures. So it was in their reasoning that was going on. All of that was said so that they could believe which means by what is happening in their reasoning which would go into their memory. He expected them to make a decision an agreement by the evidence it was presenting. So there's this third aspect of our mind which is our will and by that agreement then they can have a conviction. So that brings us to the fourth aspect of our mind which is our conviction. Conviction is simply what we agree with. And I've used different examples. There are things we agree with so long we have even forgotten the exact reasoning behind why we agree with them. We might have to take a pause a bit to remember and recall the reasoning behind our agreement. And that's the nature and the power of conviction. Even if your conducts don't match your conviction, you can still insist on the conviction because you know that you have tested the reasoning behind it and it has satisfied you and so you have since agreed with it. So it's a separate aspect distinctly that we must identify. Sometimes people say if someone doesn't act in accordance with what they agree with that oh they don't really agree with it. It is not always the case. We can find that people can hold a conviction things that they agree are the case that is different from the strength of their consciousness and so their actions are not matching things that they agree with. This is not strange because it's exactly what Romans 6 was about. It's exactly what many of the letters the apostles wrote were about where people indeed agree with the reality of redemption but were acting contrary to the same and they were lamenting don't you know? You already know this, you already this. So what's going on? And it's not like they were oblivious. You'll see them eventually call them to the act of growth or to the path of growth which is faith or faith stand. We'll start seeing that very soon. That's very subject matter we are going to next and it's really really something you your eyes must be open to. But I want us to look a lot at this issue of this fifth aspect of the mind which is I'm convinced about something which can also be called faith. I agree that this is the key. But then I am not reckoning that reality which we are saying this reckoning reality is what you are conscious of what you are affirming what you are renewing your mind to what is transforming this what we are calling that consciousness. And I want us to look at the word conscience a little bit. Look at Titus and chapter one. You see this interaction Titus chapter one between the word mind and the word conscience. And then I want to explain the word conscience to us. Then a couple of texts we'll see from the Lord Jesus. We have already seen James. We've seen Paul a little. There are several texts we could go to. But we'll see some other texts in the next episode after which we go to faith stand to then understand in an old manner how the Bible describes faith. Now in Titus 1:15 Paul speaking he said to the pure all things are pure. To those who are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure but even their minds and conscience are defiled. Now let's be careful here. Usually people are careless when they are looking at some of these texts you can find where for instance people say it was shocking I've heard someone say like and they were assuming even things that were sinful are pure. So when Paul says all things here we must realize that he's speaking about things in the cosmos sense of it like things like matter you must know where it's coming from. is coming from the background of people were reasoning via the law of Moses and where there were a lot of depictions of right and wrong via material things. They would explain certain animals to be holy and others to be profane. Certain things to be right and other things are not. The anointing oil are separated and other ones are ordinary. I could go on and on. So things played a big role in their system of holiness in depicting how they should walk with God in a separated manner. So that was part of their system and this discussion you find it also in 1 Timothy chapter 4. Let me quickly take you there because the word conscience is found there again before I come back to Titus. So first 4 and verse one. So the spirit says expressly in latter times that some will depart from the faith giving it to deceiving spirits and doctrine of demons speaking lies in hypocrisy having their conscience. You are seeing this again conscience said with all iron forbidding to marry commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. Now see again verse four. Every creature of God is good. So when you say things in this context we are talking about the cosmos things made that they are good. There's no inherent evil in anything made. Every creature of God is good. Nothing is to be refused if it is received with thanksgiving for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer is also true of you remember Peter's vision where he said I will not eat anything unclean. So you see this idea of things being seen as unclean which was part of the system that was obtainable in what we could call the old covenant. So in Acts and in chapter 10 he was shown all kinds of for-footed animals and wild beasts. I'm reading verse 12 of Acts chapter 10. In it were all kinds of forooted animals of the earth, wild beast, creeping things and birds of the air. And a voice came to him saying, "Right, Peter, kill and eat." And Peter said, "Not so, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common, which is the idea of profane, is not holy, is not special or unclean." And a voice came to him saying, "What God has cleansed, you must not call common." I don't want us to go into details there. That's not our focus. I just want you to think about it. Notice what happened to Peter there. Peter says, "Never, I'm not going to eat this." Why? For it is not clean. What made what made him think he's not clean? His conscience was in that state because he had heard something from the law that formed his reasoning. From his reasoning, it was in his memory and must have become his agreement. It was said this is what Yahweh said. This is what you are meant to believe. This is how you meant to conduct yourself. And there is fundamental truth in what the law is saying about morality. But the it expression of it we'll get to that later when we look at the truth of morality that there's moral truth and then all the way there's moral expression and there are many things in between from moral truth to moral expression. You might find people give a moral instruction based on an intention and it will lead to this expression of using things to depict your holiness and your morality. But it is not because those things are fundamentally evil. They are fundamentally bad in themselves because things created by God are not. and God made everything. Now they might be corrupt in the sense that they are decaying. Everything is standing like our body as well. But they are not evil in themselves. They are not evil in any such sense. Now this is a challenge Paul was facing with certain people because some who were still upholding the law of Moses in that manner were contending against his message. And he now says to the pure all things are pure and to those who are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure. You can see this issue of non-believing again. They are not convinced. They have not agreed with this truth and even their minds and conscience are defiled. You can see there's something wrong with their minds and he also says conscience is using them together. It's not to say that there is mind different from conscience. Of course, it depends on what you mean because mind here is using it as their understanding. But the word mind is a very big word. It can be used for the entire faculty. It's just like when you see the word dinoa which can be used for one's concluded reasoning. No can be used for the reasoning. No can be used for the conclusion of the reasoning as well as your knowh your understanding. So you always have to define by the content. In this case he's saying their understanding and their conscience are defiled. What is the word conscience? Time has run on me interestingly. I I'll get to define the word conscience but there are three things that make up conscience. When you have conscience or when we say ah my conscience will not allow me do that like Peter also wouldn't want to eat something unclean. There are a number of things that leads to that and I'm going to open up those things that define the conscience in the very next episode. But for now I hope we have seen over and again the seven aspects of the mind. We are starting to see that conscience is part of the mind. We can see that from 1 Timothy 4. We are seen that from Titus 1. There are so many texts to talk about this 1 Corinthians 8 etc. But conscience or consciousness that includes conscience judgment is such a fundamental part of our humanity that if we do not understand it, it might be trapping us to walk in a way contrary to what we should in God's purpose. For now, see you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
