---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 10)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MjeE-kbNN7s
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 10)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome back to the Play Rose podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. We want to make some progress. We are looking at how to fulfill God's purp. I should take it anyone listening to this knows that God's purpose is sunship. Knows that sunship means you are God's child and God's hair. Knows that as God's hair, you have a natural assignment and a spiritual assignment. In fact, you should already know that how you fulfill your you should already know that the journey, let's put it like that because when we say how you fulfill your purpose, we're talking about growth. The journey of fulfilling purpose is or the pursuit of purpose is your regular daily life of devotion and fellowship with the father that helps your spiritual growth as well as your walk in your natural and spiritual assignment. So you should know all these basics and we have shown you what the work in your natural assignment is like, what the work in your spiritual assignment is like. We did that by showing the phases of each of them as well as the instruction of maximum productivity as we engage our assignments. Now we are far into the study of how we fulfill God's purpose. And it's by disciplehip the Lord when he told his apostles to go preach and get people saved which is salvation into his purpose. He told them to then disciple them that they may be able to do all that they are meant to do. Then when we read um Paul explaining what the Lord did at the resurrection, he called it the perfecting of the saints. So he said the Lord gave the leaders of the church to perfect the saints. And you recall that that word perfecting katismos means they are to bring the saint to a particular end which is an end of growth. At that point we said we we have to dual ambition, dission of growth and the ambition of purpose itself. So it's like you are asked to bear a burden and you are unable to bear it. Then you set the goal first of the stature, the growth, the fitness, the endurance, the strength to be able to bear that burden before doing the actual task of bearing that burden. And I said these two things should happen simultaneously. As you begin your walk in God's purpose, you need to also get into the preparation of the same. The Lord said in Luke 12 and verse 47 and 48, he said, "He that knows my will and does not prepare and do according to my will, I think, and does not prepare and do it will be beaten with many stripes." So there's a need for preparation in carrying out God's purpose. We have seen that the goal or the ambition of growth is that of knowledge and that of stature. I don't want to be logical. I could have said that of knowledge and that of growth because the knowledge is prerecided. But what makes for the actual growth is what we do with the knowledge. And we're going to get to what we do with the knowledge that makes for the growth. And that's why Ephesians 14 says till we all come to the unity of the faith. Knowledge of the son of God. Perfect man measure of statness of Christ. You can see the first two unity of the faith is knowledge. Knowledge of son of God is knowledge. But perfect man measure of statness of Christ speak to speak to the level of our growth. You may ask like okay what is the substance of our growth? I would have thought knowledge is the substance of our growth. Well no no no it's not knowledge. And that's because you you know that yourself. You could even test it and check that it's very possible for you to know something and not be doing it. If you have received or if you have gotten to that point in growth or stature to do something, it won't be impossible, difficult for you to do it. You will naturally do it. So if you're not doing it even though you know it, then it shows there's a missing link between your knowledge and that states in growth that makes for your work. And that's the part we want to resolve so that we'll be faster. Today I'll try to jump in quickly. You recall that we are saying the mind is the focus of our growth. Our nature is already settled, right? Once we are born again, our nature is settled. Once you become a new creation, your nature is settled. I showed us this in an earlier episode. But let's see if we can quickly run through it before we come back to Romans 6 in 7 Corinthians chapter 5 when we talk about the reality of the new creation. I don't know if you recall um Ephesians 4 told us that the truth that we need for our growth is the reality of the new creation. When he was talking about the mind of the unbelieving people, he now told us, "But you have not so learned Christ. You have not so learned Christ. You are not in that condition. You are not in that state that they are." He says, "If indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, that you should put off concerning your former conversation, the old man." Interestingly, can you imagine like the truth he said was lacking on the mind of the unbelieving folks, those who don't believe in the gospel is the truth about the new creation. Of course, I mean they need to believe the gospel. But he's saying why their walk is this way is because the reality of the new creation has not is not on their mind. And he's saying you shouldn't be like that because you need to have had your mind renewed by the church. You need to have your mind by the church to the people he was speaking to. He was expecting that they had had their mind renewed by the church. So he's like you should put up concerning your former conversation the old man which grows corrupt according to deceitful lust and be renewed in the spirit of your mind and you should put on the new man which is created after God and righteous and holiness of truth. Now in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 16 to talk about the new creation that's why I'm going here 2 Corinthians 5:16 it says therefore from now on we regard no one according to the flesh even though we have known Christ according to the flesh yet we know him false no longer. So the flesh cannot be um a degenerate or a corrupt or a sinful spiritual nature because there are instances where flesh is used that way like Romans 8:9 you are not in the flesh but in the spirit if so be that the spirit of God is in you or the spirit of Christ is in spirit of God is in you. If any man has known the spirit of Christ is none of it. Now in Romans 89 flesh there is about the corrupt sinful spiritual nature that we used to have. We are no longer in that state. But here he says even though we have known Christ after the flesh. So you couldn't be talking about Christ being of that same nature. So flesh here is for flesh in a natural sense. We knew him as a natural human being. Now he was still the divine son of God. But he's saying we knew him in the natural sense that we could say oh this individual is male. Right now we know him first no longer. We could at that point say this individual is a Jew. So we knew him according to gender, race and even class. We could have said he is from a lowerly income class, he's a carpenter, etc. He said we don't know him th anymore. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ is a new creation, that means our recognition of people is not after the flesh, is not after the natural standpoint. The reason why he was speaking this way is because in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 16, he had said, "Therefore, we do not lose heart even though our outward man is perishing, yet our inward man is being renewed day by day." So there's a way we recognize people based on their outward standing and there's a way we recognize them based on their inward state. So I could see someone and say oh that's a female but it's a different ball game to say that person is light and that person is darkness and these are real spiritual states that people are in. It's a different thing to say that person is has the life of God and that person's is still spiritually dead now. So he said I'm not we don't know people from the natural standing anymore. Now we are judging spiritually. Such that when we think of a man in Christ, we are thinking of the person based on that spiritual standpoint. The person is a new creation. The person has a completely new nature. Old things are passed away. They are not passing away. They have passed away and all things have become new. All right? So if you recognize that then I think we're on track. It means you know that there's the nature part of humanity. You know there's the mind side of humanity and that affects our work. Now our work is what determines if we are walking in God's purpose or not, whether we're going to fulfill it or not. But our work is directly and entirely product of our mind. So we can't do anything extra to our nature, our spirit nature, our inward man, that one is already permanently fixed. I mean Bible is clear 1 Corinthians 6 and verse 17, he that is joined to the Lord is one spirit within. As a new creation, your nature is exactly permanently just as Christ. Right? And you cannot improve on that. I know sometimes we use some some technologies and in fact there's a way we can use them rightly and I'll explain later like we say I'm care because even my heroes do this and and I think they they do it from a from a right heart. We can say you need to train your spirit. You need to train the human spirit. But biblically you can't you can't develop your spirit as a believer. Your spirit is already perfect complete and divine. If you could train your spirit then you could train God's spirit which you can't. I mean it's to say that you even start to feel blasphemous. And he says he that is joy to Lord is one spirit within. Now whenever we say that about our spirit we are really talking about our mind. Sometimes people say oh we don't believe with our our head or with our mind we believe with our heart. Hold on. When we study further you are going to understand it's not that simple. So in this teaching we'll get a bit into the weeds looking at our mind. And I'm even thinking we have to cut it off so that okay maybe I'll jump it and I'll come back to you later. But we'll get a bit into looking at the seven things that make up the human mind. And I mean biblical we're going to see that so you can be aware when you say where do we believe? What is where is faith happening? It's really is not happening in your um spirit. It's just your spirit. It's just your nature. You are one spirit with the Lord. You partake of divine nature. It's happening on your mind but it's happening on a part of your mind different from another one where you can say well I can doubt here or I can think or consider issues here but I am still in this state here and we are we'll explain those dynamics when we get there for now I really want to make one point and it's a very important point I've been stalling on a point a while now in the episodes and I want us to get to it in Romans 6 he has said you already know but your walk is going to be affected if you don't reckon so he said you already know that you're dead to sin you already know that death has no longer has dominion over Christ. And because you are united with him, death no longer has dominion over you. But then in verse 11, it says, "Likewise, you also reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive on to God." You reckon yourself to be dead to sin and you reckon yourself alive to God. That means you can know and you are not reckoning. And the state of your reckoning is really what affects your work. The state of your reckoning is what affects your work. Your knowledge does not produce your work. Now, if they were being taught, the saints were being taught by a church and was saying therefore don't work like this anymore because you now know. Why is it bo that like your knowledge should fix it? But he's saying you need to put off and put on. That's the point. Your knowledge doesn't produce your work. your reckoning or your putting on and putting off produces your work. Now let's see another word he used to describe reckoning. I told you reckoning is to account, is to affirm, is to record, is to recognize, you know, but you are having an intentional recognition. Now look at Romans 6:12. It says, "Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body that you obey it in his law." So the reason why sin would not have his reign in your mortal body is because of your reckoning. You could look at verse 13. Verse 13 says, "And do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as being alive from the dead." Again, he's using another word to describe the same instruction of reckoning. He's saying present, right? He's using the word present in place of reckoning. That word present in the Greek is the word paristi. Parisi is two words you know it's from two words it's a single word but it's a word that is from two words there's the prefix par that can mean beside or it can mean aside in this case it means beside and then the second word is the word is which in the Greek simply means to stand so it means to stand beside so when you say present is not that you are not creating a reality you are simply standing beside that reality so you are standing beside your body as dead indeed to sin and alive unto God And this is what makes for our growth by presenting ourselves right. So present your bodies a living sacrifice. He said present your members as instruments of unrighteousness. Do not present your members as instrument of righteousness to sin but present yourselves to God as alive from the dead and your members as instrument of righteousness to God. Let's go to Romans 12 at last long. Romans chapter 12 we see what it says to do. Romans 12:1 it says I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of God that you present your bodies. So your bodies just means your persons a living sacrifice holy acceptable to God which is your reasonable service. So present yourself your person as a living sacrifice. Holy and acceptable to God. So you are not going to be holy. You are holy. You should present yourself as such. Now a living sacrifice means you are alive. You are alive. You are not dead. And life we're speaking about here is your nature. Present yourself as one who has life and yet is offered up in service to God. Present yourself as one who is holy. Present yourself as one who is acceptable to God. So you are righteous and that is your reasonable worship. So we are saying that when we have knowledge we still have this job of reckoning of presenting. It's we're going to see one more instance and it's going to lead us to a conclusion that knowledge is one part of our mind. Presenting is another part of our mind and they define our growth and we must understand them. Well, I'll catch you on the next one. Thank you. &gt;&gt;
