---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 6)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nRG0vYyifSo
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 6)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truth [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, brothers and sisters. This is still the Plus podcast, a daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose, right? And we are still unearthing God's purpose for our life. I trust you've been following. We have seen thus far that God's purpose is sunship. We saw that Ephesians 1:9, God has made known to us what he likes and what he wants. Ephesians 15 told us what he likes and what he wants is sunship. Romans 8 explains to us what sunship is. Romans 8 says sunship is to be God's child and to be God's hair because the reality of the spirit of sunship when put to the test when examined reveals these two things. So these two realities are seen when we put the spirit of sunship to the test. What's the first thing we see? We see that we are children of God. That word in the Greek is technon from titco which means we are birthed or reproduced by God. Then the second thing we see about ourselves when we look at um the spirit of sunship is that when you a child of God then you are an hair of God. Okay. Now we're looking at something important in the last episode. What we're looking at is when we say we are hairs of God. What can God even give to us? Don't forget the word hair means you are one who has been assigned something by another. So when you say you if you say I'm anal anyone should ask you is of who because you are saying I'm one that has been assigned something by who who assigned something to you an air of who and then of what about that because you could be an air of dangote and then maybe just of a very tiny little piece of his worth as an individual. So there are those two questions that will naturally that should naturally be asked if you say I'm an air and you say okay of who and then of what in in that sense and it's very legitimate to ask that question in this case when we say we are heirs of God and when we say we are joint hes with Christ and I like that the question indeed is by is resolved by Paul after it talks about talk about us being of God the very next set of verses in that Romans chapter 8 start to talk about you know reports that the creation is a beneficiary of the reality of who we are. And it's only if you miss the fact that he called us hes that you fail to see the connection between who we are as sons and the implication it has upon creation as a whole. What he's doing there is to say the effect of our being heirs we are now granted ownership of creation. The management right over creation is such that whatever direction we take is going to affect creation or whatever we are off by nature is going to affect what our inheritance is we are going to effect the reality of our power our authority our life upon creation at the right time and that's what leads to Romans 8:19 where he said for the earnest expectation the desire and it's sort of using a personification for what we may consider inanimate. Of course, they are animate um entities in creation, but as a whole, speaking about creation, you might want to talk about it in an inanimate way. But yet, he uses um a personal um attribute for creation. It says the earnest expectation, the desire of creation is [snorts] this is it eager waiting is waiting eagerly for the manifestation unveiling of the sons of God. So he's waiting for that point where the sons of God effect who they are on their mortal bodies and in that same breath upon all creation. And that's to show you that the sons of God what they have as sons as hes of God is authority and right over creation. I know you get the you get the drift. Remember what we're talking about last time right now the inexistence we can classify things into two. We have the self-existence God. I am that I am and we have the created existence right? And that's the natural world what God has made. So if God is going to allot anything to anyone, he's not allotting himself per se. There's there's a sense in which we say, well, God gave us his spirit and that's something he has allotted to us, you know, his nature, but not still his person. You can't hone God as a person. You can have his nature and the implications of his nature on all creation and you can in that sense even say the spirit of God is what God allotted to me as an inheritor. In fact, there's text for that in gospel word. But that is not our focus in this sense. Why I'm also concerned is that when people go to texts that speak about the spirit as our inheritance, this is what God allotted to us. He gave us the spirit. They are failing to see that the very spirit God gave us is the spirit of sunship. Which still means after saying God gave you the spirit, you still have to explain what the implication of giving the spirit means for what your assignment is. Because the fact that you have the spirit given to you by God is with the sense that something belongs to you. I don't know if you are getting that. I hope I'm not like confusing you there. That is let me take it again. You can rightly say in one sense God has allotted his spirit to me. He has assigned his spirit to me. He has given his spirit to me. But what spirit did he give you? The spirit of sunship. Which means within what he gave you is still a responsibility. Within what he gave you is still something he gave you. Right? Because if the spirit is the spirit of sunship and sunship is essentially about being an hair of God and you are an air of God then as an air of God there is still something is sin is allotting to you in the fact that has allotted the spirit to you. So you cannot separate this reality of inheritance beyond just having God's nature that there is something you have as God's own. And we we were looking at this the last time that we could say we have all of creation that what God and lost know it says we are heads of God joint hes with Christ. I remember then you know in law school we're taught sever inheritance and joint inheritance something to that effect where you know in someone loting his property he sees what he owns but also he could give what he owns in common to a group of people um to yeah to a number of people. So he says you and you jointly own this and they will have to figure out how to manage it, whether to dispose of it, whether to keep it and take the benefits of it as they manage it, etc. So when it says we are joints with Christ, it's talking about a joint inheritance, which means there is something we coh with Christ and he's saying all believers are cohing with Christ. You recall that I think that's Hebrews 1 that will talk about Hebrews 1 1-3 the reality of Christ being heir of all things and there is a place to say well those are words spoken to the fulfillment of Christ but even if that's true the words spoken themselves are about the lordship of Christ over all of creation right so in being cohes with Christ we cannot separate that reality that we own all of creation within God owns his creation is assigning it to us. Okay. Now let me let me look let me point out one of the texts I mentioned to us earlier which is Matthew 5:5. I was saying is Matthew 5 Matthew chapter 5 either five or six but I'm saying it now is Matthew 5 and 5 said blessed are the meek pointing out the reality of our faith as meek. We realize that we need help and we are receiving that redemption in Christ. The biatitudes are all pointing to the reality of faith in Christ. All of them those who are hungry that means they are not satisfied they know that there's a need that they have you notice almost all the biatitudes are all themed around the need for something so the poor in spirit we need something the meek of course someone that is needing help is meek hungry but the other parts of the biatitudes are now the um character of those who receive that help because of the fact that they needed help and received it they also showing help they are merciful they are pure pure in they are peace his maker are seeking to reconcile people as well and they are persecuted in light of the fact that they are carrying out that assignment to reconcile people back to God. Matthew 5 and5 blessed are the meek. They shall inherit what Matthew 5:5 they shall inherit the earth. They shall inherit the earth. So he's saying all of us that are of faith own the earth. Joints with Christ of God. What does God own? Creation. What do we own with him? Creation. What does Christ own? Creation. He has redeemed creation. back away from the hands and the hold of death and darkness and has gotten the rights to creation based on the legitimate victory that he has gotten over sin death and darkness. And so we are now co-honing creation with him. So what God owns as a matter of being creator is creation allotted to man put under the old of death and darkness legitimately fixed legitimately by redemption in Christ. So now owned by Christ in that sense now we are joined with Christ we own creation now but beautiful we own creation we are going to effect upon creation God's nature and desired goal of life and light will beffected on creation at the end is that all there is to our inheritance like God has given me the spirit glory God has given me uh ownership of the earth to effect on it his life what does that mean right here and right now for my purpose? Because that's really the question we're trying to answer. What does this mean for your purpose? What are you supposed to do? Why did the creator make you and put you here? Where do you where's your place in all of this cosmic drama that you are faced with? You are just part of this narrative that is unfolding born into it. Like what exactly is your place in all of that? And you are seeing well this drama begins with the creator. He wanted these things. I've gone wrong. Now I'm reconciled. I'm born again. So what am I supposed to do? And you have been told that his purpose is sunship. You have beautiful, you have a spirit, you're a child, you head. Okay. So and so what? We all own creation jointly. But is that all there is to it? No. In our joint inheritance of creation, there's still the reality of severed inheritance where individuals that is that joint inheritance is divided or severed that's what I mean to different persons. Right? So you have this and you have that and this person has this and that person has that and on and on we go. And so I want you to take a look at again that text we examined in the last episode Colossians chapter 3 and see that you have this individual inheritance in one regard which is a natural one that is you have in the natural an inheritance as we're going to see there's a spiritual inheritance that you have there's a natural inheritance permit me to say it that way and you understand why I'm describing it that way and then there's a spiritual inheritance that you have. might say well it's all spiritual since God gave it but in this sense pay attention there's an intent to the descriptions you know that I'm using rather and you have a natural lance or assignment I have a spiritual or assignment now Colossians 32 we're going to read again all the way this time around to chapter 4 and in verse one so that we can get a good grasp of what Paul is saying here it says bone servants so in today's paralance will say employees now I understand the debate relative to history um as to the kind of role bone servants were playing then But that is not my focus about how good or bad it was, the ethics of all of that and the disposition of God towards this. The focus is on what the application of this text would be today which would be towards employees. And we're going to see that that is indeed the application when we look at other texts like in 1 Corinthians 7, Ephesians 6 etc. So it says born servant obey in all things your masters which would be like your boss today. of course with better conditions today owing to developing morality um in the lines of truth obeying all things your masters according to the flesh not with eye service as men pleasers but in sincerity of heart fearing God so your obedience to your masters is because of God why you are fearing God and whatever you do do it actually as to the Lord and not to men so your faithfulness to your boss is like recognizing that your boss was put there by the Lord is like the kind of regard you might give to any other kind of either particularly spiritually. I mean if you're a spiritual person you regard spiritual leadership is saying that when you have your boss at work you know when you have a boss at work is the kind of attitude you ought to have that the same way you feel God gave this person to me spiritually for my growth and development in this case God gave this person to lead me as I'm carrying out this assignment within the earth all right and whatever you do do it actually as to the Lord and not to men you have that sense that what you are doing was given to you by the Lord knowing that it is from the Lord you will receive the reward word and that word word there is remmoneration is the word anthropodosis in the Greek I don't want to go into all of that it means what they are giving you in exact correspondence to what you are doing so you are going to receive the remuneration what corresponds to what you are doing you receive the remuneration of the inheritance of what was assigned to you for you serve the Lord Christ you need to get this right that is literally saying what you do in the natural your natural work is service to the Lord for you who does wrong will be repaid for whatever he has done and there is no partiality. Let me read chapter 4:1 even though the time has run on me in this episode. It says masters give your bond servant what is just and fair knowing that you also have a master in heaven. Very clear both the boss and the employee are all under servants. They are all under the employment of the Lord and they are going to be judged relative to what they do to their work, their participation in the assignment that God has given to them. I want you to settle this and we'll open up other texts. Ephesians 6 as well as 1 Corinthians 7. We open them up in the next episode. I want you to settle this on your heart that you have a spiritual or natural assignment that God has given to you. How faithful are you with your natural assignment? He has given you work to do. Don't be found handling it carelessly, lightly, loosely. Take it with all seriousness. There's a natural assignment the Lord has given you. Catch you on the next one, brothers and sisters. Bless you. We trust you were blessed [music] by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your [music] questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow [music] us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. [music] For now, stay blessed and keep walking in [music] his purpose.
