---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "Faith Stand (Part 4)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WCYcQsQAm8o
---

# Faith Stand (Part 4)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Plleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Now we have been studying on the faith stand and I believe it's something that is going to bless you tremendously. I trust it already has. Hopefully you can recall some of the things we have already said. Remember we have settled what God's purpose is these days. I'm not mentioning it anymore. We're going to get back to it at a later time. We need to like equip oursel first to be able to talk about it in greater detail at a later point. So we have seen what his purpose for our life is. We have seen the road map of walking in his purpose. We have seen the need for growth. We have seen that growth happens on the mind. We have seen this most vital aspect of our mind as touching our work. Now every aspect of our mind is key. We need to think through issues, meditate on them. We need to be sure that our convictions are right. But there is what makes for our work, our conduct. And that's what we have been looking at. Now, having said all of that, we saw that we walk or we do the word as a result of faith. We have already made that conclusion. And today, I'm going to take us to Romans as we've been doing, but I'll go to James, then we'll come back and look at that. But let's go to James, right? Let me go to James first. We have seen that before. Let's go to James again. Then we'll come back to Romans and we move forward from there. So in James chapter 1, if you recall, James was telling them to be doers of the word. James 1 and in verse 21 to receive the word. And I remember the last time we looked at this, James 1:21, it says to receive the implanted word. I said it means the word of God is like a seed. It needs to grow. And this is one distinction between salvation and spiritual growth. Again, where it's one thing to say, oh, the word of God is a seed on your heart. And let me let me slow down. In salvation, you receive the seed of God's word, is not going to grow to salvation. Once you receive the seed of God's word at salvation, you are saved. But when it comes to your walk, you might hear a truth in God's word and is a seed planted on your heart like you have the healing power, like you are a loved being in Christ, like you are the righteousness of God, like you are dead to sin alive to God. I mean, it could be anything. It could be about protection, preservation, any truth of God's word is planted on your heart as a seed. But your experience of it would require growth which is unlike salvation. When Peter talks about receiving the incorruptible seed of the word, it means we are transformed by receiving that seed. This one is like birth. When your parents male garment and female gamut from this new person that you are, the male seed and female seed from the new person that you are. And 1 John 3 and verse 9 will say the seed of God is in us. This one is not a process long run. It's the instance of salvation where the spirit of God is received. But here the implanted word is as a seed that would grow to change your life to save your soul. So it's going to save your life and it could be in any particular regard. It depends on what you're going through. So you could think about soul as mind because by the time we get into the details of it, it's really the mind that the word of God will affect to change your life. But always remember that soul does not directly mean mind. It means life. But by further explanation in some instances it will be talking about the mind. And in some instances which is many instances if not most is not talking about the mind. In James 1 we have read 21. Let's look at 22. It says be doers of the word not as only deceiving yourself. Remember that word deceiving yourself means reckoning aside yourself. Reckoning besides yourself which is the word. You are reckoning aside or beside yourself. This is not positive now. This is not standing beside yourself. This is negative. you are standing asides or besides not beside but besides yourself which is a possible use of the of the prefix par. So there's the possibility of hearing God's word and agreeing with it but having a different reckoning from it. In verse 23 he says if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer is like a man observing his natural face in a mirror for he observes himself. Do you notice that he first says it's like a man observing his natural face in a mirror. So you could stand in front of a mirror to observe yourself. But by the time next verse says for he observes himself it means he really saw you was when we observe the mirror we mustn't go with the idea that what we are observing are the things that are wrong with us. That's not the picture James is painting. James had earlier told us who we are in Christ. You know he has said that we are begotten by God by his word of truth. We are a kind of the first fruit of God's creatures. So he's just telling us that we are new creations. We are new people. We are like God by nature. So by the time he says you are standing in front of the mirror, you are seeing who you are. Right? So the person stands in front of the mirror to observe himself. Then he had for he observes himself. He actually saw that he was a new creation. He saw that he was a particular div by nature. He saw that he was a brand new person. But having done that something happened, right? He observes himself and goes away and straight away he forgets the manner of man was. So despite knowing these truths about himself, despite recognizing that he's a new person, he forgets. And the reason we are told he forgets is because he goes away. That's the reaction he had after seeing himself. Not out of spite or anything. He simply just goes away and then he forgets. So he doesn't do the word. What happens to the other person? He says, "But he that looks into the perfect love liberty and continues." So he says, "This other person observes himself and continues." Parameno is the word there. So in this case is the positive standing beside the person parameos meno there is to abide is also for where we have the word for dwelling mon. So it means he dwells beside. So after seeing it the person tabernacle there the person is like man I'm a love being in Christ fine I am staying here I'm not moving I affirm I'm a love being in Christ. So the person did not move from that reality that he or she saw. So the person was found abiding beside reality of who they are. So when I see who I am and I abide beside it, he says I am not a forgetful error. Now let me read it. It says he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it and is not a forgetful error because of his faith stand the person is not a forgetful. Forgetful is not lost in your memory. Because if you ask the hearer of the word what did they say that day? What did you see in the mirror? He's likely going to remember he saw that I'm a new creation. So the forgetfulness here is not knowledge in memory lost that oh it went into the person's short-term memory and now it's gone. It's rather consciousness or unconsciousness of what the person had is the same reckoning issue that was mentioned in verse 21 that is being described as forgetfulness in the subsequent verses. So he says if you continue you are not a forgetful body doer of the work that one is blessed in what he does. So if a person keeps the consciousness of who they are and when life happens in different ways and they are pressed to react their reactions are the things that they have built in themsel so they react the word they react righteousness they react love they react joy they react peace know goodness etc all right I do hope this is very clear that James is just reiterating the same things that Paul himself taught Peter taught John taught the Lord Jesus taught which we'll say at a later time now so going back to Paul. Paul says, "Now that you know Romans 63, 6 and 9 in three verses in Romans 6:3, Romans 66 and Romans 69." He affirmed that his audience already knows who they are. But he instructed them in Romans 6:11 to do something. He told them, "Reckon yourself. Reckon yourself." So it's not enough that you know, he's saying you have to reckon yourself to be dead indeed to sin and alive to God. Reckon yourself and that word recckon would be described with the word present. In verse 13 it says present yourself not as an instrument of unrighteousness but as one who is alive from the dead an instrument of righteousness. Present paristi to stand beside. Then we saw Romans 12 says the same thing. Present your bodies a living sacrifice. So present yourself as you are in Christ which bring us to 2 Corinthians 1:4 which we have began to see. So we are getting into it now. Then we go to Colossians 2 and we get we come back to Romans. Interestingly in 2 Corinthians 1:24 Paul shows us that the stand that we make in our life as believers is by faith and that the work of the preacher is to is to serve the audience to be able to make that faith stand or to continually make that faith stand. So he says we do not have dominion over your faith. We are simply fellow workers for your joy. For by faith you stand. For by faith you stand. We are fellow workers for your joy for by faith you stand. So we cannot have your faith for you. We can only work for your faith. We can supply the knowledge and we can supply the inspiration by instruction by exhortation by correction for you to take your faith stand. We can also supply the example. In fact the preacher can supply the direction. I could say say with me now I'm a new creation and you will do that. I'm supplying the direction. I could say with me now I'm a new creation and you may not do it. So it's not enough that the preacher does his work. You have to do yours. Let me show you one text. 1 Thessalonians quickly chapter 3. You'll see Paul talking about that as well. First chapter 3. I'll just I would have shown you more but at a later time I'll do that. Let's just look at verse 6 to8. He says, "But now he says, Timothy has come from you and has brought us good news of your faith and love that you always have good remembrance of us, greatly desiring to see us as we also to see you. Therefore, brethren, in all our affliction and distress, we were comforted concerning you by your faith." When we heard you, look at this. This is not your salvation. That would be weird. When we heard about your faith, walk your faith stand. We were comforted concerning you. For now we live if you stand fast in the Lord. Notice the word stand being used in the same breath as faith. When we're hearing of your faith, your stand, we were glad. If you read further, you'll notice in verse 10, Paul says, "We want to see your face that we may perfect what is lacking in your faith." I can't overstate it that what makes for growth is faith. Faith stand is what makes for growth. That act of reckoning presenting is faith stand. That's what changes us stand in who we are in Christ. So you got to stand by faith in who you are in Christ. Now let me take it a step further. We we've seen Colossians chapter 2 that says as you received Christ Jesus our Lord so walk in it. And now the question is how do we receive Christ? What I want to show us now is the principle of faith. Romans and chapter 10 will show us how we receive Christ. So we can know how faith operates and then what is the difference between faith at salvation or salvific faith and faith in our work or faith stand. So there is faith and salvation is just one instance of that very simple salvific faith and there's faith in our work which we are calling and describing as the scripture does as faith stand. Romans chapter 10 and in verse 8 Paul said this but what does it say the word is n you in your mouth and in your heart that is the word of faith it we preach verse 9 that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved but with the heart one believes to righteousness and with the mouth confession is made to salvation and the word heart is really just saying with your mind so when the truth of what Christ has done is preached to you think about it. You are not suppressing the truth. You know, righteousness as Romans 1:18 says that some people do. So when you think about it, you understand. You're like, "Oh boy, I think it's true. We need salvation. We need redemption from sin, from death, and from darkness." The moment you believe that I need to be saved. The moment you see it, you understand it, you believe it in your heart, and you affirm it. Lord Jesus, I'm grateful. Thank you for what you have done. I receive this work. You are affirming and receiving it personally for yourself. that confession with your mouth in whatever shape or form doesn't have to be overly formulized but that affirmation that happens with your mouth that you take it for yourself then you are saved implying that the principle of faith that is at work at salvation which Colossians 2:6 and several other texts we have seen are telling us is at work in our growth the principle of faith is a principle of our heart and our mouth this is something the Lord Jesus himself taught in the famous faith text by popularized by none other than the sage Kenneth E again Mark 11:22-24 faith is of the heart and faith is of the mouth so we're going to wrap up at this juncture but from ongoing um sessions we'll look at this faith stand itself after we retreat some things on the principle of faith then we'll look at how the faith stand works to transform us particularly in the light of what Paul said in Romans 12:1 where he said presenting ourselves is our reasonable worship so you will appreciate better why faith stand is not just like salvific faith for now God bless you and see See you on the next one. one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
