---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "Gospel Answers Series 1"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=05Vs-MJv3TE
---

# Gospel Answers Series 1

All right, welcome to the gospel answer series. And it's simply a series to present the gospel as what it proves itself to be the truth. So we're going to be running down through different things that the gospel answers. Now this is simplified version of the gospel answer series. there will be the critical version and I trust that from that your queries and questions your doubts and botherings about you know the validity truth of the gospel will be resolved. Now to the very first video you know to the very first subject matter I should say that we're going to be looking at Ephesians 1:13 would be our starting text. Ephesians 1:13 says in him talking about in Jesus you trusted after you heard the word of truth. So it says we believed on Jesus when we heard the word of truth. That means that the reason that we believed on Jesus is not simply because our emotions were high. It's not simply because we felt this way or that. Now understandably by the working of God's spirit at the instance of salvation we could have different experiences that inspired the decision for salvation. But the underlying premise of our faith in the gospel it says is the fact that it is the truth. So you believe the gospel when you heard the word of truth the gospel of your salvation. So he calls the gospel which we believe to be saved the word of truth. Then he says in whom I haven't believed were sealed with the spirit of promise. So because of this faith we have we are now found as um a people of God with his spirit. So there's a big claim here right that the gospel is making and that's the claim that it is the truth and it's precisely what we want to examine in this series the gospel answer series if the gospel claims to be the truth we need to find out truth about what we need to find out does it really prove itself to be truth etc etc now you might have watched the video on the most important question you need answered or you could the video titled as well I think it should be titled why you need to believe the gospel now so that's like a very very simple version of the gospel for your salvation. What we are doing here is to clear further doubts that may be lingering or for some people who still struggle um to accept the truth of the gospel. We are solidifying the evidence of the gospel as truth to the end that you believe it for your salvation and subsequently that you trust it for your work in its revelation of purpose. Right? So I want to just give us a brief introduction for now. So still have a little time here and I'm going to um take us to Romans chapter one for the next thing that we're going to see. Romans 1 we see in Romans and chapter one one here when Paul speaks Romans chapter 1 and verse 16 he was talking about the gospel as well. He says, "I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation." So, one thing is clear, the same gospel in Ephesians 1:13 is the same gospel is speaking of here. You remember Ephesians 1:13 says, "You believe the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation." Here it says the gospel of Christ that is the power of God to salvation. And it says it's the power of God salvation for everyone who believes. So he's not saving everybody just by virtue of it being the gospel, but he's saving those who believe. Right? So it's the power of God salvation to those who believe. To the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. As it is written, the just shall live by faith. So something is clear. If he's saving us, he's saving us from a mess. And he's saying he's saving us by making us right. the righteousness of God. What is right is giving us that righteousness of God or he's making us right the way God wants. You know, because we have faith. But this I want you to see before we wrap up this particular video. In verse 18, it says, "For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven." Now, in the same message where the righteous of God is revealed, he says the wrath of God is revealed. Which makes sense because the message that saves is saving you from something. He's describing what we have been saved from with the terminology the wrath of God which would require some explanation later down the line. Right? So he says the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and all unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. So what I want you to notice here is we're told on the one hand that the righteousness of God or salvation is revealed to those who believe but on the other hand that the wrath of God is revealed to those who suppress the truth. What did the first set believe? The gospel. What do the second set suppress? The truth. Essentially the same thing. He's simply calling the gospel the truth just like Ephesians 1:13 did. Why does the gospel claim to be truth? And does it prove itself to be so? That's what we'll see in the next video or the next episode of this Gospel Answer series. Catch you on that one.
