---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 6)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jhOf8h9QFHY
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 6)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right. Welcome to the Larus podcast. Your daily dose of God's word transforming you, renewing your mind to fulfill God's purpose for your life. I trust you'll be learning. We've seen some important things and I'm just going to rush through them. We have seen that the gospel holds the place of truth in our lives. in fact in existence such that those who reject it are still affected by its truth just likely to be the negative consequence as a result. Second thing we have seen is that it answers all the different questions of truth. But at the heart of that or at the end of it is the question of why. Why is there anything at all? Why do we exist or why is there created or contingent existence? And we've seen that the answer is God's purpose which is sunship. And we've explained sunship. It means to be God's child and his hairs or God's child and his hair. If speaking about one person plural which is God's intention was a family is to be God's children and to be his hes right and as his children we are to fellowship with him and walk in his nature and character then as his heirs we are to carry out the assignment that he gives to us and we have seen that there are two assignments that we have natural assignment and spiritual assignment so those are the basic things we have gotten those out of the way but it's not enough that We just know about God's purpose. Ordinarily, what should follow from that is how do I fulfill it? What am I supposed to do about it? Am I supposed to pursue and fulfill that purpose that God has for my life? And what we have seen is that the pursuit of God's purpose is not something that is just left to us to think out on our own. Even though if we think through it, we could probably arrive at the same conclusion. But God's providence and orchestration, his word, his revelation, his written word, the scriptures, the Bible directly address how we navigate the pursuit of his purpose. And a central text in that regard we have seen is 1 Corinthians 7:17 7:17 where he said, "Just as God has parded to us and as God has called us, that's how we should walk." And it's talking about the conditions in which a man receives the gospel or realizes God's purpose are the conditions God already forneew for him to begin his walk in his purpose. So your walk in the new life in Christ, your walk in God's purpose for your life is not such as to begin with you trying to fix one thing or another about your conditions. Now it is about fixing or repenting and abandoning sins. That's a different thing. We're talking about fixing circumstances or conditions. That's not how we are told. It starts it rather starts with you walking from the state in which you are called. So he said, "So let him walk and I have ordained this in all the churches." Verse 20 of that 1 Corinthians 7 will say, "Let each one remain in the same calling in which he was called." So you start out from there. Let John remain in the same calling in which he was called. She's again talking about the conditions. He had started out talking about marital conditions. If the person was already married and you know probably even married to an unbelieving person, it says God is well aware. We have ordained this in the churches. Everything about the conditions people find themselves in again conditions not seen. You know is where we begin our walk from. Verse 24 we repeat verse 24 of 1 Corinthians 7. Brethren, let it one remain with God in that state in which he was called. Now you recall that you would give exceptions in some instances particularly things like in a natural assignment you give exceptions there. So when you can make progress that's an exception particularly in the natural but if it's about things like your identity those kind of things if you are doing them for the faith you are probably walking in the flesh which means you're walking out of fear and the idea that the work of Christ is not sufficient. So your status in such regard you know they don't count except this like matter of just personal desire u you should begin your walk with God from the state in which you are called. So that includes the state of your natural assignment. You start from there. It gives us what follows in the pursuit of our natural assignment. The second rule from starting from where you are is take advantage of opportunities if you can be made free. So it wasn't saying you surely can be made free. Um but if you can so the language there's a language of an opportunity available to you and where you do have such an opportunity use it. Then the third counsel he will give will be found in verse 31 of the same chapter where he says those who use this world as no misusing it. So this is not a case of someone having to do something neither is a case of someone having an opportunity but it's more of a case of someone choosing to do something as misusing it. So it's more speaking to like those who now have that level of privilege beyond constraints of circumstances or limitation of opportunity to freely of their own um preference choose what they want to do. So I said when it comes to natural assignment we must recognize that liberty of our choice to choose and to act in the pursuit of our natural assignment as we want to. And please don't you don't understand me everything in life is open to the leading of the spirit. So there is still the place of leading of the spirit. But as you can see the leading of the spirit in our natural assignment is complimentary to our desires and our pursuits our personal desires and preferences about what we want to do. That is the position of God's word about it. Well, it is not out of place for a believer to seek the confirmation of God's spirit even when you have that desire. But the wrong protocol would be to ask God's spirit what exactly must I do. When you go that route, you are taking the direction of God's word which we have examined. You can see it written ignoring that light that you have in God's word. And now the very action you are doing is already time wasting. If you are not starting out with where you are first. So you start out with where you are. You start out with opportunities you have. You start out with your own desires. Then you should also by um as you do that now you can and should um confirm by God's spirit the direction you are going as right. And this is true of um marital relationships. So it's not the case that even though it could be that way as well that one particular individual has been written for you. But of course you know as a believer you live in when you live in the sense of God's purpose of which one of the things said about one that lives and walks in God's purpose which means you are living um within God's orchestration not superimposing on your free will but engaging with it you know working out his purpose and plan as a matter of his own choice as a matter of his sovereignity he chooses to allow free will. If you are living in that sense, Romans 8:28 would be part of your reasoning, which is all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Now, that text is speaking about people who are of faith. And the primary implication will be being of faith for salvation itself. But the truth there will be applicable to being of faith in our work as you. If you are living and walking by faith, things will work together for the good of God's purpose for your life. Right? So even where you don't have a specific direction about marital relationship and you are going by the rule of the word of God, which is you making your choice, which is a rule that is true both in the New Testament text and in the Old Testament text. I believe that should be Numbers chapter 36 when the daughters of Zohad um asked, "Oh, what are we going to do? We don't have any male um in our from our circle and our inheritance is going to be lost to some other tribe which won't be good. And we're told to find from people within their own tribe, right? Their father rather had no son and so their inheritance may get lost to another tribe if things are not um addressed properly and they were told to marry from within their tribe. So no daughters could have married across scribes freely in their time and culture whilst the male males would have owned entirely the inheritance of the father and retained it. But now he's saying that the inheritance of our father is going to be lost. The portion that belongs to I think it's Joseph there you know it's going to be lost if that restriction is not made and then the restriction indeed was made. But you know where I'm going to in that text that numbers 36 it says let them marry whom they think best. So it didn't say let them marry this and that. So this idea of you making your choice in marriage is found in scripture. Now that's the Old Testament text on that. The New Testament text on that same matter is 1 Corinthians 7:39. It said she may marry whomsoever she wills. And it's borrowing from that numbers 36 text. She may marry whomever she wills only in the lord. So there's a restriction of tribe here you can say of faith in this case. So not restricted entirely to a local culture but restricted to the faith of our lord Jesus Christ. So she mar whosoever she wills only in the lord. So Aan said that this liberty of her will marry whom she will marry whom she thinks best when it comes to the pursuit of God's purpose or when it comes to marital you know relationships or decisions is also found when it comes to natural one in a way that is not it is quite it could be or it may be more restrictive when it comes to spiritual assignment and we'll see that now it's not also that restrictive at the beginning But usually as things unfold, it could be more restrictive than this where oh this is what I want to do. Circumstances avail me, opportunities allow me, it's my choice, I can pursue it. Um this is not like God says this is this person's role and this is this person's part in the body of Christ, which is how spiritual assignments operate, right? So I just want you to understand that don't put a burden on yourself nor on other people when it comes to their natural assignment of seeking a specific thing when it is part of God's design for them to enjoy the exercise of their will in that regard. Now let's leave that aside. So we said when it comes to our spiritual assignment, it begins on the same rule as the natural which is start where you are. Those very circumstances in which you are found is also where you ought to begin your pursuit of your spiritual assignment. So that 1 Corinthians 7:24 and 20 and 17 1 Corinthians I'll say it the right way now 1 Corinthians 7:1 17 verse 204 rule applies I'll read 24 again let each one remain with God so everything that pertains to remaining with God in the state where which he was was called you know would apply as it is as is applicable for the person's marital state applicable for the person's natural state would be applicable able also for the person's spiritual state particularly here talking about location. There's a place you are where you know about God's purpose and your spiritual assignment. You start from there. Now we start with Mark chapter 16. Mark 16:15 says go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Go into all the world and preach the gospel. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believes and is baptized will be saved. He that believes not will be damned. So we are told to go and I told you that the exception there could be an exception but if there's an exception is not for you to go looking for it. If there's an exception it will come to you. The word of God is clear enough for us to begin and take our initiative with. We sometimes can be found laying burdens on ourselves that God does not intend to lay on us. And I do think in judgment some people will be found wanting for in maybe seeking to be maybe in their sincere piety. Sincere piety and maybe also in some sense of a puritanistic mindset. They can always want to optimize for did God exactly say this? when there is clearly God's word already directing what should be done first and the exceptions as a matter of you keeping your fellowship with God and your devotional life will come to you okay so let's look at the text in that regard and I know let's see Acts chapter 16 for a start now in Acts chapter 16 Paul had gone back for to follow up on people he had preached to earlier and then he wanted to proceed from there to the next region next region as he had always done in his first missionary journey which he did with that as in his first missionary journey. Now, so second missionary journey, I'm done with the follow up. I'm done seeing the folks I've seen before. Let me just move on with Asus. Then verse six, and when they had gone through Friia and the region of Galatia, they were forbidden by the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. After they came to Messia, they tried to go to Bethnia, but the spirit did not permit them. So passing day, they came to Trrow and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. A man of Macedonia stood pleaded with him come over to Macedonia and help us. What does that mean? He was attempting ordinarily, naturally, and in obedience to God's word to take the next step in the light of the instruction of the word. He wasn't sitting around waiting on his, you know, on his couch for something. He was ready to go. But then the exception came to him. That is how we should approach the matter. My start from where you are. Exceptions may come to you. Catch you on the next one. We trust you were blessed by today's [music] episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst [music] on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
