---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 2)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QnSUcIkYtSw
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 2)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, brothers and sisters. Welcome to another episode of the Plleos podcast, a daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. So, we began to see, you know, another subject matter built on what we have been looking at prior. We've seen the place of the gospel in your life, which is the place of truth. We've seen the reality of God's purpose. We have settled that quite some sunship and now we're looking at the pursuit of God's purpose. Now, that I know that this is why I'm here. This is why God made me. This is what I'm to do. Okay, what exactly do I do now? What am I supposed to do next? And the answer I told you is not something we need to apply just general natural wisdom for. We can trust God's word to give us objective direction as well as it gave us the objective revelation of God's purpose. But I was making a very important point in the last episode. I want to reiterate again which is that this void of meaning and purpose that we are existentially designed with which God fills. We must ensure that God truly fills that void. There is a way and manner in which we can have that void filled by pressures of life, the cares of the world. there's a way we can approach life from that standpoint and we are not actually approaching it, you know, with a heart that is actually pursuing God's purpose. So many times when you hear people talk about greatness or you hear them talk about success or hear them talk about fulfillment, it is tailored to natural human um desire to want success, to want greatness, to want fulfillment. This natural human aspiration. So there's that sense that we want more, we want to fulfill, we want to go higher and often times is also driven by competition. Now that depends on the fact that you have crossed the line of survival. So there's the fact that it can be a matter of survival. You're trying to meet your needs and then there's now the burden of competition and the like that can also come to you and define how you walk in this world. But you must be careful that's not how you function. Once you have the revelation of God's purpose, sunship, your heart must be rooted in it. That the reason I was born, the reason I am here, the reason I have life, the reason I have breath, the reason I exist, the reason I was made is this purpose. God made me for sunship. And you should be grateful you have found it on faith in Christ. You have become a son of God. But that means there's a significance to your person. You are not just God's child which we all are. You are God's hair again. We all are ears of God jointly but then we are also severed hes of God. That means we have individual inheritance which means each person is significant in God's purpose. Let me explain. When we say we have severed inheritance and God has given to each one something to do, that means there is literally nobody else that has what you have been allotted. What has been allotted to you was allotted to you. Now, one example I like a lot in scripture is the example of David and Saul and David. Clearly, you can tell what was allotted to Saul was meant for him. But unfortunately in God's forn knowledge knowing of his unfaithfulness was allotted to David. But it's clearly said to show us that I don't want to use a complex word but it's often called counterfactuals to show us that Saul could have it could have happened that he didn't do that because he had the right to act accordance with his will. But it was said that if you had done this then will your kingdom have lasted after you? That was at the instance of his first act of disobedience, grave disobedience if we may add. And then at the instance of the second one, I mean second act of great grave disobedience and rebellion. It was said that the kingdom was taken away from him. So we can see this progressive loss of that which was rightfully his initially and then allotted to another person as a result of fornown unfaithfulness in such a manner that that person was now spoken of as owning that lot as though his own. And this is important because whatever God had lost to anyone, he had lost it to them like it's just for them. That is he lost it to them. Let me not say like it's just for them. He lost it just for them. What God has given to you to do is just for you to do. This means as special as someone you look up to is you are just as special because what that person has is theirs, what God has given to you is yours. I need to restate that what someone has doesn't affect what you have. People have their assignment. You have your assignment. And your part is allotted to you strictly to be done by you. You don't do it ordinarily. It doesn't get done. But of course, in God's orchestration, he will then find a way to get it done. But it is yours. You are that significant. Is not given to you with and another person at the same time to see who does it first. Is given to you to do. You must place a sense of significance on yourself and recognize that the only reason why what is yours is lost is your own doing. Whether you are faithful or unfaithful could be lost rather what is yours could be lost wouldn't be lost with trust could be lost is your own doing your faithfulness or unfaithfulness in that matter. Let it sink so deeply into your soul. Let it sink so deeply into your heart that you are significant like you are as significant as anyone else. The problem is not many people even get to the point of knowing God's purpose let alone acknowledging their significance in the same. Not many people get to the point of knowing God's purpose let alone acknowledging their significance in the same. Thankfully, you have crossed the line of salvation, redemption, crossed the line of knowledge of God's purpose. I want you to embrace that clear sense of your place in existence. You are a significant part of what is happening on earth. You have a significant portion. You have a significant part in what God is doing on earth. Now, you have a significant part in the natural and you have a significant part in the spiritual. How do you start? We'll be seeing a text to double down on the point I'm making and then to take us further, which is 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and we'll be looking at it from verse 17. It says, "As God has distributed to each one, as the Lord has called each one, so let him walk. As the Lord has distributed to each one, do you notice that sense of an individual assignment, individual inheritance? As God has distributed to each one. As the Lord has called each one, so let him walk. As the Lord has distributed to each one, as the Lord has called each one, so let him walk. You recall, I hope you do, that the word distributed there, we have seen it, is the word meo in the Greek, which means to part. So there is a hole and people have different parts. You remember the word meose that was used a lot for our spiritual assignments in Ephesians 4 1 Corinthians 12 as well. So he said as the Lord has parted to each one there is what the Lord has parted to you when he called you which is right from salvation. Now you could say there's what the Lord has parted to Peter to Paul. Do you know why I'm using those examples? Because it's easy when we say there's what the Lord has ped to Peter and then to Paul to look at yes there is what he parted to them is so grand is so huge is so big is so significant here because we often speak of significance from the standpoint of result but do you realize it looked very insignificant at the start if at all there was any significance is in the promise of what it could be and that's the way it is for all of us what God has ped to us is significant because it's strictly to us. If it doesn't get done, it means it's ordinarily would not have been done. Of course, in his orchestration, he will find a way then to get it done because of your unfaithfulness, but ordinarily it was strictly yours. That is how important you are in the equation of what God is doing on earth. I want you to wake up to that, to see yourself in that manner, in that way, the way you really are. You are that seriously significant and valuable to the earth and you need to recognize it and shine forth as light that you are. You have your own allotted space of responsibility measure of assignment that you are meant to ensure you carry out to the fullest. So you have to wake up to it. He has ped to each one. He has padded something to you. So I like you to say it. He has distributed to me. He has distributed to me precisely and exactly that which he wants me to do. See, I'm significant. I'm a significant part of God's purpose. What he has given to me was given exclusively to me. What he has given to me was given exclusively to me. Now, think about it. If what he gave to you was not exclusively to you, 1 Corinthians 7:17, then that text will not be true. And I know there's a way we try to encourage people not to be unfaithful because God can do without anyone and it's absolutely true and that is a matter of his workings his orchestration to still ensure his purpose and plan gets fulfilled. But in terms of his purpose, he allotss to people exclusively only happens that he has to rework in the light of people's response and faithfulness with what he all lost to them. There is what he has given to you exclusively to do. If only you could wake up with that sense of significance about yourself is going to change a whole lot. And you don't have that sense of significance based on comparison, based on just your personal ambition, but based on righteous recognition. Righteously, I mean what is right is just true that this is what was exclusively given to you. It's based on righteous recognition that you have been exclusively allotted something to do. So there's something for you to do padded onto you. He says as he has padded to you so you should walk. But you're saying oh we are trying to look at the pursuit of purpose. So what does that mean about what I'm supposed to do now in pursuing God's purpose? I now know that I'm his child. I know that I'm his air. I should start walking as he has parted to me. And yes, that's where the answer is. You will realize that what this text implies is that your walk begins from where you are. Your walk begins from where you are. You will see this truth repeated again and again within the context of this particular verse I just quoted. By the time you get to verse 20, for example, he says, "Let each one remain in the same calling in which he was called." He's saying in the very states where he received God's purpose, where he receive salvation, which is the reception of God's purpose, the entrance into God's purpose, remained there. What it just means is start there. Verse 24 would also say, "Brethren, let each one remain with God in that state in which he was called." That means the walk in God's purpose begins right where you are. From where you are, you can begin your fellowship with God as his child. Your growth to to walk in his character and his nature. Also, from where you are, right from that point, you can begin your walk in his assignment for you. You need not wait for some special events to happen. You need not wait for some set of things to be fulfilled. You can begin your walk with God right from where you are. Right from that place that you are, you can begin your walk with God. To show you instances he's going to use, let us see what he says about walking right from where you are. So I'll read verse 17 again. It says, "As the Lord has parded or distributed to each one, as the Lord has called each one, so let him walk, and so I ordain in all the churches." So it doesn't matter what age it is. This is the order for how we walk in God's purpose. Look at 18. He says, "Was anyone called whilst circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised." So he's showing one of the states in which we can be in because this one where identity and status issues. He says, "Was anyone called whilst uncircumcised? Let him not become circumcised." Circumcision is nothing. Unircumcision is nothing but keeping the commandment of God, which you can at that point say is about faith and walking in love. Or you could altogether say is walking in his purpose. Now let each one remain in the same calling where it was called. I have to wrap up. Were you called while a slave? You are seeing we're getting into our natural assignment. Do not be concerned about it, but if you can be made free, rather use it now. And that text is going to show us how we start. He record slave. He says, "Don't be concerned, but if you can be made free, use it." So, how do I pursue God's purpose? I start where I am, but then I have the right to make progress. There's much for us to unpack here and I'm going to start to show you that from the next one as we see how we begin in our natural as well as spiritual assignment. Catch you on the next one, seeing the pursuit of God's purpose. &gt;&gt;
