---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 2)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q6gWiyM7Cik
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 2)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, welcome back to the Rose podcast. So, we are pressing forward with our new study on how to fulfill God's purpose. Right? This is your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And we've been making quite some progress. We have seen that God's purpose for our lives is sunship. That's why we're here. And the Lord Jesus's work of redemption was to bring us back into that purpose that the Lord has for us. So at the point we are saved, we shouldn't just have the joy of, oh, thankfully I'm saved. I'm not going to be damned. We should also have the recognition of why it was so important to the father. Why it was so important to our Lord that we have to be saved. He didn't save us just to save us. He saved us for the reason that he made us. And that means he saved us for his purpose. So what he desired eternally just to to have for which reason he saved us is his purpose of sunship. Now we've examined what that is what sunship is. We've seen that to be God's child and God's we have examined what it means to be his child. It means we are called to fellowship with him with him and to walk in his nature and character. Majorly that's fulfilled by a life of prayer and devotion. Then secondly it means that sorry the other hand when we are hearerss of God we have assignment things given to us. Um when we talk about being of God there are a couple of things we could see there having God's spirit is like God assigning the entirety of what he what he is his nature to us. So there's one sense in which you can say I'm an air of God because I have the spirit of God right. But the very spirit we have is called the spirit of sunship. Which means in having the spirit which is what God has assigned to you the spirit in that spirit is still the reality of being an air. There is something allotted to you there. And at that stage of phase you can say oh the entity of creation is allotted to me and you're right. So it's a joint inheritance. That will be another way of thinking about it. So you see text that say the me the earth. You see texts that say Abraham is here of the world. You see text that point how Jesus is here of all things. All right, that's Hebrews 1 1-3. Now, but within that reality of joint inheritance, there's still severed or individual inheritance. So, and we would see across scripture, there's our natural inheritance as well as our spiritual inheritance, natural assignment and spiritual assembly. Now, all of these have been, you know, we have looked at them and um it's not important for us to press forward, you know, uh we have a a natural assignment, spiritual assignment. How do we pursue God's purpose? So um pursuing God's purpose we said is maintaining a life of prayer. But then how do we pursue um our assignments or inheritance? We look at how that unfolds. For our natural assignment, there are five things that unfold in the pursuit of our natural assignment. For our spiritual assignment, there are five things that unfold there, you know. So the first thing is um for the natural assignment is you start from where you are. You take advantage of opportunities that come to you. to you. The third one, you you use the world as you desire when you can. All right? So the fourth one, you are always open to the leading of the spirit. And the fifth thing, you maximize the opportunity. You ensure that you are maximally productive. That's what I wanted to say. So now that's the like five point uh submission on our natural assignment. for the our spiritual assignment. We said it begins with commitment to disciplehip in a local church. And you you would always find God would always orchestrate your steps to a local church, right? There's a very love of text in Psalm 68 that talks about he puts the solitary in family. So there will always be that design of God putting you in a local church and you should be faithful there. you should be committed there except you find your steps ordered in and to another local which does happen and it's fine um as long as you are doing it on confidence of the truth of the word and the leading of the spirit is okay but he can't just leave you in the dark or leave you in the blank about Lord don't go to any local church at all that's not really the way of God's word it's not the way of truth so spiritual assignment begins with this commitment to the local church first and number two you go um and why I say go is you must always go to reach more people. So you might have been in one place, you go somewhere else. Even in our time today where going is not just physical, we now have the privilege of a virtual type of goal which is go reach people. So you must always seek to reach more people with more in more ways um as much as possible. But then apart from going you must know what you're meant to do when you go. you are supposed to preach, proclaim, publicize the message. And number um four, you are supposed to disciple those who receive the message. And number five, you're supposed to continue in this in the above every other thing we have said, your disciplehip and your ministry until leadership. You could max out the life of purpose by just living this way. And we have seen examples of people that did that. I've given several examples across um the board, male and female. We can see Priscilla, she's functioning in her spiritual assignment. She's a leader. She's carrying out her natural assignment. She's a tent maker alongside her husband Aquilla and Paul. You know, um we could see um Gio as I've mentioned very well individual yet also functioning as a minister. We could see Arashtos is the chamberlain or the treasurer of the city. So he's likely functioning in government yet is participating in his spiritual assignment as well. I've mentioned Onimus and who wasn't so high class as a and yet was faithfully serving as a minister. So it doesn't matter whether you are whatever class you are, whatever gender you are, whatever race you are, we find that cross gender, race and class, we all are to max out God's plan about the assignment he has given unto us to carry out that spiritual and natural assignment faithfully. Having said all of that, I want us to press on further to how we fulfill the assignment. Now, we're going to start with a very lovely text. Luke chapter 12. The text is something that has always blessed me for a long long time and really guided um the way I think about many things in my walk with God. I hope he blesses you just as much. I might already referenced it in the podcast before, but I'll be pointing to it more emphatically right now. So Luke 12 and verse 47 he says this is the Lord speaking right. So he said um and that servant who knew his master's will and did not prepare or do according to his will shall be beaten with many stripes. But he who did not know yet committed things deserving of stripes shall be beaten with few. For everyone to whom much is given from him much will be required and to whom much has been committed of him they will ask the more. Okay I don't know if you got that like I don't is the the I read this text like quite some years ago um was being at the point far younger than I am right now. So I'm talking about maybe 15 years ago, something like that. So and at the time it was so it was such um there was such a and it made such an impression on my heart. The the first thing I made an impression is the second verse verse 48 where he said he that did not know yet committed things deserving of stripes shall be beaten with fuel. I was like what? The guy did not know like why is he still you know having any consequence? I don't know if you saw that but that has one clear implication. The burden of knowing is on you and from that point I did not I knew I didn't have the right to outsource the knowing to someone else. So I've always been blessed by people and I still am and but I'm very particular about ensuring whatever I'm learning actually is the case and it's a rule that each and every one of us must keep. So as you submit in the local church, I mean elite people. So it's not the case that I'm saying, oh yeah, I don't care about being in the local church or even being submitted there. But it is not, you are not absolved of the responsibility to ensure that you know what you are told is right. You better be sure that it's correct because it's on you to be sure that you know. He that does not know will yet be judged for not knowing. It's your duty to ensure that you have clarity. You got to know. But our focus is on the very first verse. It says, "The servant who knew his master's will and did not prepare or do according to his will." Beautiful. The servants who knew his master's will and did not prepare or do according to his will. So this one is worse because he knew the master's will and I think if you're a listener on the perish podcast then congratulations you got to you have to be in this category. No not you are not this person but at least you have passed the first phase. You know God's will. You cannot say I do not know the will of God. That is not true. Like we have sweed it out already like number one you know that you are his child. You're supposed to be in fellowship with him. You already know that. Maintain a life of devotion. You know that you're supposed to walk with your father who has made you for his will, for his good pleasure, you're supposed to enjoy that walk with him. And now as you're walking with him, saying, "Hey, I have things for you to do." So, and you also know the things he has for you to do. You can't just say, "Well, it's just this he has for me. It's just that he has for me." He's like, "I have this and that for you. So, I have a natural assignment and a spiritual assignment for you." You [snorts] can't go pretending that you don't know. Okay? You're like, "Man, probably I shouldn't have listened. Sorry about that." But now you know. Now that you know he says you have to prepare and do according to his will. Do you notice that he said prepare then he said do. So this is a challenge like we talked about the pursuit of purpose because I wanted to create the mental picture in your mind of where you're going for you like you could be such that you are just starting out. In fact you could be a student you have not even began working but it's still your natural assignment. You could be already pursuing things that you desire. You're not constrained by um circumstances nor by opportunities. You are rather dictating the place of what you want to do. So you are in that third phase um of your natural assignment um you know of that third place maybe no faces since it's not like everybody must be there but um you you could you could realize that like oh I'm I'm doing all this but wherever you are there is still the place of preparation to doing the will of God and at this point I particularly as it is pretty obvious there's need preparation. So I asked like oh my natural assignment why am I going to prepare I've gone to school I've gotten my degrees I've done some further studies I've improved myself I mean I've been I've learned I'm you very dedicated and so on and so forth would you say that I need to be prepared more so when we're likely pointing to a preparation that the church gives now this very important and you're going to see that the preparation the church gives gives affects what you do in the natural. Maybe I at this point I should quickly dissuade your mind on some things. This is not preparing you for sometimes people call it like some um you want to it's not like you're doing it for some Christian agenda in the world. That kind of mindset is not the Bible mindset. The Bible mindset is clear that the kingdoms of this world would be until the coming of our Lord. So and you can never fully remove the darkness in this world. You can only salt the earth. You can only we we are we as believers we have the role of being examples and preservers. So that's the role as light in the world and salt on the earth to help people see how to do things and to preserve from the decadence that can be in the world. You cannot eliminate evil completely but there have to be the good people that are you know holding holding the fort against this the sway of things into complete corruption. Now that's the role that believers have yeah in that sense you can be prepared. The preparation though even when it comes to your natural assignment particularly is your heart as you're going to see it's not your skill. It's not your how. is not even the what you are doing is is this how that has to be do with your heart but then there's the big preparation that is the entire picture particularly there's a preparation for your spiritual assignment which will take us back to Ephesians 4 so the Lord said you must prepare and then you do and there is no text that helps us appreciate what this preparation that we are to have entails than Ephesians chapter 4 so there is a preparation that ensures that we're able to fulfill purpose knowing purpose and The journey or pursuit of purpose is not what prepares you, puts you in the state of being capable of fulfilling that purpose that God has for your life. There is there is that preparation. There is that training that you're meant to have. And um that's where we want to get to. So we're going to efficient for I mean get ready. It's going to be quite some things to examine. And I really believe if you pay attention, it will really change your life what we are going to see. So, Ephesians chapter 4 is where we're going to kick off from. Catch you on the next one and we'll learn there. Thank you. &gt;&gt;
