---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 11)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6v8LNmAbSaA
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 11)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, welcome to Pluros podcast. Let's have our daily dose of God's word transforming us to fulfill God's purpose. Now, we've been on a journey and we have seen a number of things. We have seen what God's purpose is. Remember, we've started from if you've been following us, we have looked at the truth and it has led us all the way to the truth of God's purpose while we are here on earth. Right now, I've seen God's purpose. If you recall Ephesians 1:9 and Ephesians 15 give us the revelation of why God made the world is because of this is good pleasure and will called sunship. So he wants us to be sons and that's not saying male children. We're about to explain what sunship means and Romans 8:15 down to 17 has been highly instrumental in understanding what sunship means. That is very helpful to understand what our purpose on earth is. With that understanding of what God's purpose for our life is, we have laid down some blocks. I just want to reiterate some things. So, we have seen that sunship means two things, right? Or there are two realities that make up sunship. The first is that we are children of God and the second is that we are hairs of God. For the first part of the equation, it means God made us because of this desire to have a family. I don't know about you, if you have experienced the desire to the longing or the desire to have children, you know, is a matter of good pleasure. Accept it for selfish reasons. But the natural desire is just the good pleasure, the joy of having and fellowshipping with one that is produced by you and get of your kind. And this desire that is found in humanity. We're told from God's word is originates from the creator himself, the self-existent one, God. And he's the one who desires to fellowship with us. A core part of his longing is this fellowship, interaction, and intimacy that he shares with us as as our father and we as his children. So I do hope that you recognize that and whenever you are so opportun to relate with the father you do it out of that recognition that is this time of fellowship with the one who made me for him but then on the other hand being God's child which is a reality of being a literal child of God. It's not figurative. It's not that you are adopted as his child. And this is why we kept explaining that the word adoption can give us a completely wrong mindset about God's purpose. If you're an adopted child of God, it implies that you are not truly a child of God. You are someone's you are someone else's child by nature, but you just happen by God's chosen to now be his child. So your nature remains unchanged and then you are just God's child by name adoption. That is not the biblical idea at all. So you are God's child indeed. He used the word technonom and it implies that you are reproduced by God is why it's consistent with all the other texts that tell us that we have the seed of God in us. First John 3:9 that we are partakers of the divine nature. 2 Peter 1:4 God is in us and we are in him. And we know this by the spirit that has given unto us. 1 John 3:24. 3:24. Just like other texts like Ephesians 5:1, we should imitate God as their children. So as his actual child, we can imitate him. we can do the things that he does and we should walk in love. He says we should walk as children of light. Ephesians 5:8. We could go on and on. So you're an actual child of God and to walk in his nature and his character. Now that's the first part of sunship. But something is wrong at that juncture. It's like, okay, God made me to fellowship with him. Fine. And then God made me to walk in his nature and character. Fine. But what am I supposed to get done? That kind of sense of pursuits and fulfillment and achievement. And sometimes people can feel well why are you about that in the first place? The reason why those things exist at all is because they were made by God. Why people have the sense of fulfillment, achievement, pursuits, wanting to get things done is because God designed it that way. And I could tell you God himself is like that. The very word purpose protest is I think more accurately means there is something set before you to fulfill. So there are two words there. There's the word before pros pro and there's the other word to put or to place determine. So something God put something in front of himself to do. Now what he desired is good pleasure and his will is what he put before himself to accomplish. So the sense of fulfillment and accomplishment originates with God and he gave the saint to man. There's a sense of fulfillment and accomplishment in man. Maybe in a way that we don't find with any other created entity. So there is that part of us and he's not to be ignored. In fact, we saw it in the life of Jesus as well. So, it's not screen. The Lord Jesus said in John 4:34 said, "My meat is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish it." So, what satisfies me like food, my meat is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish it. John 17 is going to tell us that he did finish it. That sense of pursue, that sense of fulfillment, that sense of accomplishment that we are wired with as humans and we can say we are existentially wired with. But as believers in God and in Christ, God in Christ, then we say that God has wired us with is for his purpose. So there is something we have to accomplish. Unfortunately because as we often say nature above vacuum then it's very likely that if you do not feel that part of you that seeks fulfillments that seeks achievements that seeks completion finishing doing pursuing accomplishing what you're meant to I think achievement might be misread but you know what I mean I don't mean it's in the personal amition sense even though there's place for that we'll get to that some other time but if you don't feel that part with God's own purpose, then is likely going to be filled by something else. Very likely is going to be worldly and fleshy. It's very important that you find out God's purpose and align yourself with it. One thing you can always be assured of with God is because by nature is life is light is good. You can always be assured of the fact that what is telling you to do is good and this something we need to um rest on. Someone says, "Well, who cares whether it's good? If God says do it, then do it." That's true. But there are really fundamental questions to answer as well. Can God say do evil? Now we are not saying there won't be difficulties in what God says to do. Am I not even saying there's not the possibility of God calling us to sacrifice and but that itself is still good and that's why there's there's always been joy in the hearts of believers no matter what they have to sacrifice for the cause of the gospel because we know that what we are doing is good. That's the motivation of what we do. We know who we serve is good. We know what has called us to do is good. Anyways, I've said a lot already. Now let me go back to our discussion. The part of God's the sunship equation that addresses this heart of fulfillment that we are designed with is being hairs of God. So being a child of God has no sense of pursuit in it. Fellowshipping with God is not like a pursuit. It's just like something we maintain. It's not that there's a goal to it. It's just a maintained reality. Walking in God's nature and character is the same way. But when we talk about being hairs of God, there is something to accomplish. There's a goal set before you. There's a race to finish. There's a need to talk like Paul like Paul did in 2 Samuel chapter 4 and in verse 7 where he said I fought the good fight. I finished the race. I've kept the faith. Now there's laid up a crown of righteousness for me which the Lord the judge judge will give unto me on that day not only unto me but unto all who have loved his appearing. So there is that sense of accomplishment and even reward or loss of the same that we should be concerned about when it comes to being of God. So we have seen that we as of God those who have been assigned things by God there's a joint assignment of creation to all believers but there's the seed or individual assignment in the natural and the spiritual to each believer you as a believer have what you have what God has allotted to you as an individual 1 Corinthians 7:17 says it this way as God has parted to each one or distributed to each one. So you can see this is an individual reality this is not a joint allotment. So as God has parted to each one, as God has called each one, so let him walk. And there is something has parted to you in the natural. Colossians 3:22 to chapter 4 verse one, Ephesians 65, down to 9, etc. And there's also something has parted to you in the spiritual. We wrapped up the last episode looking at what he has given to us in the spiritual. We took off from Acts chapter 1 seeing that ministry even if exclusively talking about ministry to the 12 can be described as what God owns that he assigns to people. And there was what was assigned to Judas he had lost out of and that there was a required replacement of that part that he had lost out of. Ministry can be seen as what God owns that he lost to people. Very important. But we saw that the word for lot used for ministry. There's also the use of the word part me alongside and we saw that word part used for believers and particularly their role in ministry in 1 Corinthians 12. We saw 1 Corinthians 12:27. Then we know the other texts in that same chapter like verse 5 like verse 12 to 14 etc. Now more importantly we saw Ephesians chapter 4 particularly verse 16 where he said that each believer is a part to do their share. So he says we are all joined to Christ because we are supplying that which joins us the ligament that joins us because of the effectual working the grace of God by which we are doing our share by which each part is doing a share. And I told you the each part there is talking about the saints. You remember the connection we made between verse 16 and verse 12. So when you are perfected as a saint, you do the work of ministry and that edifies the body of Christ. Then verse 13 shows you what the perfecting of the saints is. Is going to lead to this end goal. Verse 13 to 15. And from that end goal you become as Christ. You are now going to do your own part. The share of your part which will cause the growth of the body which is what verse 16 was explaining. Each of us have a part in the body of Christ which is a part in ministry. Now let me take it a step further. Ephesians 4:7 it says to each one of us. So Ephesians 4:7 this is preceding verse one of the preceding verses that lead up to what we have been studying. Ephesians 4:7 to each one of us grace is given according to the measure of the gift of Christ. You notice is talking to each of us. Grace is given not to you know if he said to all of us is like uh collectively we own it but he says to each of us you can't you can't hide behind others here neither can you remove yourself from the mix entirely because he's saying to each of us. to you that has believed. No, this is also a letter written to a church. Not written to like Timothy or to Titus or to Filimon, not to an individual. It's written to just the saints in Ephesus. If we read Ephesians 1 and 1 and 2, paid in Christ Jesus to those who have believed in him of course and there were all kinds of people there in the same material. Tell them let him that sto. You can tell that this is a material reason to the entire church cutting across the spectrum of mature, immature, growing, weak, strong believers. Now, and he tells them this same church, the entire audience of that church to each of you grace is given. So you have grace. What grace is? What is this grace about? According to according to the measure of the gift of Christ. So according to the measure of the gift of Christ. What gift of Christ do we have grace for? Verse 8, therefore he says when he ascended on high, he led captivity captive and cap captives and he gave gifts to men. Is saying that the gift of Christ is a gift that he gives to men. Gifts that he gives to humanity. Who exactly are the gifts? Verse 9, now this he ascended. What does he mean? But that he first descended into the lower parts of the earth. He's talking about his death and that he descended and he who descended is also the one who ascended far above the heavens that I may feel all things that he gave. So he's saying Jesus gave after he died and rose. What did he give? Gifts to humanity. Who did he give as gifts to humanity? Well, if each of us have grace according to the measure of the gifts that Christ gives to humanity, I can tell you free of charge. He's saying that he gave all of us that believe as gifts to humanity. Now, we can also tell that this is the case from the text he's quoting from, which is Psalm 68:18 thereabout. And it was a text talking about Israel being given by God to all the world to serve as his priest to them. So you are given by God as a priest to humanity as a gift to humanity and he has given you grace for that. You are a part with a share to do. You have a spiritual assignment and I don't want you to lose sight of that. So we have seen again you have a spiritual assignment. We're going to take it up from there in the very next episode and see what are we supposed to do about the assignment that we have. &gt;&gt;
