---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 9)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JBspO_ooO7Y
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 9)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right. Good day. Welcome to Pleos podcast your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose and the subject matter that has been our focus is God's purpose right so by now you've been following the podcast you' have learned some things you would have seen what precisely God's purpose is one of the things we mentioned is that you can't know someone's purpose except by revelation you can know many things about someone without revelation. But you can't know the person's purpose without revelation. You know, I could meet you and then I could tell different things about you. Maybe your male. I could tell your height, color of your hair, color of your eyes. You know, I could tell the complexion of your skin. You know, I could tell your height on and on. But one thing I cannot tell by observing you and reasoning on that is what you're trying to accomplish, which is your purpose. What have you determined to do? Now, I could even try to figure it out from the things I'm seeing you do, but that could mislead me because you might be doing things maybe as a cover for the real thing you're trying to do. So knowing your purpose would rely on the integrity of your person and then the revelation of that purpose. And it's the same thing with God's purpose based on the integrity of his person being truth himself and then the revelation he has given from the direct revelation of himself which is the written word. You know, he could give you a personal revelation of his purpose for you and it could be valuable subject to his direct revelation which is the written word. But the written word is his validated direct revelation. That is in the fulfillment of the truth of God in the person of Jesus. He validates the Old Testament text and the apostles that make up the New Testament text. And by so doing, we can tell what is direct revelation is. So when we ask what is his purpose and we don't want a subjective answer about an objective one we have to go into his word and find out and we have already done that you know we have seen God's purpose is sunship in Ephesians 1:9 as well as 5 so God made us for this purpose of sunship we have explained what sunship is particularly from Romans 8:15 downwards to 17 where Paul explained that we have received not the spirit of bondage again to fear but the spirit of adoption which is sunship whereby we cry aba Father. So we have received the spirit of sunship and we could already tell what that spirit is about by the immediate mention of the fact that we cry aba father. It shows us that something is natural about our relationship with God when we have the spirit of sunship. So that we have the familiar we have words and expression and expressions of familiarity when we interact with him. So he says we cry about father you know. So this is a natural familiar manner of relating. But the next verse or next verses, next two verses explain to us what the spirit of sunship entails. The reality that pertains to the spirit of sunship. The first thing we see to be the reality of this spirit of sunship. Romans 8:16 is that we are children of God. So he says the evidence that this spirit gives in conjunction with our spirit. So the evidence that these two spirits give and the reason for this is because our spirit has been entirely subsumed fused with the spirit of God at the point of salvation. So the evidence given by this spirit of sunship that we receive and our spirit is that we are children of God and then it says if children then hairs of God joint hairs with Christ. What that tells us is that sunship has two realities. The first is being a child of a person and the second is being an hair of the same person. We have examined this from Galatians 4 as well. I made it clear this reality of sunship being majorly about this hair factor. So you could be a child but not be called a son because you are not an right. So it was not about being a male child when they used the terminology son even though of course it's was a more masculine um it was a reality that was often fulfilled with the male culturally so and so that bias was present but it doesn't mean from the standpoint of what God's purpose is is something limited to males that won't be true at all and that's because we see that God's clearest depiction of sunship before its fulfillment in Christ Jesus was with Israel and that wasn't with Israel as the individual called Jacob or just with the males in Israel but with the people of Israel as a whole. So God reflected the reality of sunship with them. Paul told us that Romans 9:4 we have seen all of this right. So let me get back to where we are. We have started to look at fine we are children of God. That's God's purpose wants us to be children and as his child it means we are to fellowship with him and walk in his nature and character. Okay, so that's pretty clear. Two things happen when you're God's child. There's that continual walk in fellowship with the father and second there is the walk in the nature and character of God. But then we have this other part of the equation where we are hairs of God that needs some unpacking and we've began to do the unpacking as well. When you say you are you an hair of someone, we've seen that the word simply means you are one that has been allotted a part a portion or the whole of what the person owns, right? So if someone says I'm the hair to whoever you know and let's use a very well the person I'm the hair of um Ellen Mock's wealth and the person is the sole hair then it means the entirety of what Ellen Mox owns owns has been allotted to the person. Now today we'll think of the person being at here in the sense that the person gets it when Elomox passes right that's the way we are likely to think of it when he passes then the person gets it because is the here in accordance with the wheel that he has written out and so on and so forth but the word a itself doesn't necessitate the death of the person who is giving what he owns to another to horn and manage um to horn and manage you know going forward. So he doesn't necessate that. Of course if he did that would be weird because it means we are waiting for God to die just an impossibility. Very contradiction of his nature for that to happen. Then in that sense we'll never be here. Now one of the interesting ways being a hair can happen is like when people make trust forms right you um you could say you know once my child is 18 I've been saving up such and such amount for him. is the hair to this particular investment maybe even ownership of a business that you have that you want the person to take charge of at a given time. So that's the concept of inheritance is concept of allotting something to someone because the person fulfills certain conditions. Now in this case all he told us is that faith in Christ is the condition to being an air of God. Sometimes people go to Galatians 4 and say oh maturity is the condition for being heirs of God. But that's not true. Galatians 4 was making a contrast of an infant who upon development can function as an air and he called the stage of infancy the period prior to Christ. So the idea that you are not an air of God because you just got born again. I need to grow to start a function as an heir of God or a son of God is just not true at all. Now, interestingly, we could take a lesson from that parable in Galatians 4, which is though you are a child of God as well as an air of God, your ignorance, which affects your maturity, your growth spiritually, can hinder your walk in the reality of your being an heir of God. But in fact, it hinders your walk also in the reality of being a child of God. And that can be um a very reasonable case and principled case to make. And to me is strange talking about spiritual growth generally in God's word. Now so you're an heir because God has allotted things to you and I we have seen the fact that there's this joint allotment or joint inheritance by joint with Christ which is God owns creation. That's the only thing he owns. In fact is self-existent and his creator. So what he owns is creation and he has allotted it to all those who have faith in him and his work of redemption. And um even though there's this joint inheritance that we all have creation yet we find that God's word does tell us that there is severed inheritance there's inheritance as allotted to um each individual and we started looking at that from the standpoint of our natural assignment as we have called this Colossians 3:22 to chapter 4 and verse one Ephesians 65-9 9 you know Ephesians 6 5-9 that's what I mean and I added one more text which is 1 Corinthians 7 and verse 17 to 24 and we saw there that our whatever find in our hands to do naturally at the point of salvation in fact is taken as God's allotment to us if it is good if it's not we are told to repent 28 that's because God being God in his fornowledge is aware of where we begin our walk with him in his purpose So where you find what you find yourself doing in the natural like where you find yourself even in natural parocation is all within God's knowledge orchestration providence for you and that's why it's important to appreciate that fact as you now seek progress going forward. So oh God knows I'll be here he has parted this to me to do now. But then there's the second part of our inheritance which is our spiritual inheritance. And we began to see that already the last time we saw it in Acts chapter 117 as well as act 125 where he spoke about Judah's having you know because of the act of suicide that he committed has lost his place in the ministry and they said he has forsaken his lot in the ministry. So they are seeking for a replacement to take his lot or his portion in the ministry and they use that same word for lot that is found in the word for hair or inheritance clar to describe what Judas has lost. So this inheritance factor is spoken of relatives ministry there's an inheritance a lot a portion in ministry acts 117 to 25 and 25. Now the challenge with that text is people can easily say well that's exclusive to the apostilhip Jesus gave to the 12 and so the application of us having an inheritance in ministry is not a general thing but that would be a careless reading of the entire council of God's word that is the entirety of the scripture whilst the unique role of the ministry given to the 12 was being emphasized in acts one and the description of lot was being used alongside it the idea of us having a lot a portion of ministry generally independent of this exclusive apostolic work that the 12 have that we have a lot generally in ministry is also established in God's word and we just have to carefully you know explain it now one of the things I want you to see for us is Acts 8 and verse 21 in this text Peter was you know speaking to Simon and because of Simon's covetousness to share in the authority of the apostles and also just the supernatural that was going generally but I think to claim that authority of the apostles was part of what was at play and Peter told him in Acts 8:21 you had neither part nor lot in this matter for your heart is not right in the sight of God so wanted to be able to function in a similar place as the apostles um nothing wrong with preaching generally because Philip wasn't an apostle was a deacon as we would say of course he also grew in ministry um at this time but he seen the covetousness of the man Simon here here wasn't just um pertaining to doing the supernatural people being filled with the Holy Ghost but maybe also of a position because Peter brings up the same word. He said you don't have a part or lot in this matter. Whatever the case though, you know, he's clearly saying we kind of had Simon as he doesn't have a part or lots in this matter. And my focus in this text is on the equating of these two words by Peter here. So the same word lot he had used in acts one he uses it here but he adds another word he say you don't have a part nor lot or portion in this matter and that word part is meos you know and the other word is claros which is the one for lot where we have here inheritance etc. This other one is meos which just simply means as it said part. So a part of a whole and this very word meose will be used to talk about every individual saint every single believer having a part in the ministry of the body of Christ. Particularly we would see two texts that bring that out. The first would be let's start with 1 Corinthians 12. 1 Corinthians 12 and we wrap up today. I'll just read the text then we'll pick it up from there. 1 Corinthians 12:27 it says now you are the body of Christ and members individually. The word individually there is members of a part. That means you are a member as a part. You bel you are you make up a part of this body. So you are a member as a part as a whole. You are the body of Christ but you are a member as a part me. So you are a part of Christ body. But you'll see the ministry implication when we get back to our study in the very next episode. So just to be clear, you have a natural assignment. Also, you have a spiritual assignment and we're going to make that clearer in the coming episode. All right. Thank you. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's [music] episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. [snorts] To learn more of God's word, visit [music] pleose.h. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, [music] his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose [music] community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at [music] Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
