---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 9)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TS7t_HVtM4w
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 9)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Polaros podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And we're presently looking at how to fulfill God's purpose. Could actually say we're looking at spiritual growth because we're realizing that it takes growth to be able to fulfill the purpose that God has for our lives. So, we have at least established that point well enough. Now, just to recall, we have seen what God's purpose is, sunship. We've seen what it means. It means we are children of God as well as ears of God. We have seen as children of God, it means we are called to walk in fellowship with our father and in that same breath to walk in his nature and in his character. Then as of God, it means he has given us assignments. He has given us an inheritance or in two classes or in two categories to fulfill a natural assignment and a spiritual assignment as well. So the very essence of our life as we can see directly from scripture is for us to fulfill that purpose of sunship that God has for us. Now we can speak of the journey of God's purpose, the posit of God's purpose. But we have this question to answer which is how do we fulfill it? How exactly do we get it done? I I told us about Luke 12 and verse 47:48 where the Lord said that he that knows my will and does not prepare and do prepare and do my will be beaten with many stripes. So it's possible to know the will of the Lord and not do it. But even importantly, you can know the will of God. You can start pursuing it or doing it without preparation. And you are likely to fail from the get go in the sense that you could be doing that of the flesh because your mind is not renewed because you have not matured or spiritually to carry it out in the way and manner that the Lord desires that you do. And that's why we've been saying that it takes disciplehip to carry out God's purpose for our life. It's not possible to do it in the strength of the flesh. So there's the mistake and assumption that people have that as long as I'm productive in the general sense that the world defines that then I am doing what God wants me to do but the foil of their productivity might be the flesh the foil of their productivity might be worldliness and that is not the spirit of God. So it's very important that we prize the place of spiritual growth. We prize the place of disciplehip to shape and order our life in all we do after the heart and the purpose of God for us. So the Lord said that go preach the gospel get them saved and disciple them to do all that I've commanded you to do. So disciplehip is key and Paul explained that disciplehip as perfecting the saints. We have seen that that word perfecting means they are to bring the saints to a destination. That destination he describes it in four ways but those four descriptions are in two categories. Knowledge and stature. So till we come to the unity of the faith that's knowledge. Knowledge of the son of god that's knowledge. Then perfect man measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Of course again is stature. Stature is a word to describe growth. You know the stature one has at birth as a human being is different from the stature you are going to have at 5, at 10, at 18. So there's a statue that he wants us to have and it's quite a very very high set for us. If you look at verse 15 of Ephesians 4, he says speaking the truth in love, we would all grow into Christ. So he's saying when the ministers are speaking the truth in love then they help us to grow into Christ in all things and I find that text to be so powerful because it says we grow up into Christ in all things and there is the possibility that we find individuals who are stronger in one area whilst they are weaker in others. So we might find someone that is strong in love but weak in the supernatural. Might find someone that is strong in the supernatural but weak in maybe weak in righteousness. And these things are true like we see such examples abound around us unfortunately. So there needs to be that recognition that we need to grow to do God's purpose for our life. I've used a relatable example if one wants to carry a load that is quite heavy. I use the example of like say two bags of cement across a distance that is you know fairly long and they look at their stature and they're like boy I don't think I can do that. I would need to get the beard. I would need to get the fitness. I would need to get the endurance to be able to do this. So rather than try to drag their way through carrying that load, that burden across that distance, the first thing they will do is to set the bar of growth that makes it possible to do that assignment that they are meant to. And that's really what the Lord desires that we do, right? He wants us to be able to set that bar of growth for ourselves that well I'm to carry out God's will. I'm to carry out God's purpose for my life. I need to grow to that point that the Lord desires I do. All right. So one of the fundamental things we have also resolved is that our mind is the seat the zone of growth. So our nature is already changed. Our mind is where we need to do the work. So we went a distance the last time we got to Romans chapter 6. But before we move further from there, you recall that when I was talking about the place of our mind as what makes possible, let me say it this way. The extent to which we fulfill all that the Lord wants us to do is our mind. In fact, let's say it another way. Everything we do in our life is from our minds. And there is this way that we all underestimate the place of our background on our mind. We just make that assumption since we find ourselves with the mind we have at the point where we become rational and conscious we assume that well however our mind is is just how it is and it's just okay like that and it's not true. So your your conditioning the conditioning of your mind before you eat the age or the stage where you are having like this personal introspection the conditioning you might already have might be filled with a lot of might be filled with a whole lot of mess from the world. So there is none of us that doesn't have things to address about on our mind for the sake of the work that God wants us to have. For some people it can be so bad. It can be something traumatic. It can be something um it can be some unfortunate experiences that they had at a younger age. For for some other people it might not be that bad but the kind of parenting that they had leaves them with an angry spirit. So they kind of have certain dispositions towards certain type of persons because of the mind that they agree up with. And this is the point I want to emphasize. All of us have something to deal with in our mind. That means let's say it this way. All of us have something of the flesh to address in our mind. Every single person, every single believer does. Now there is not one believer that does not have a fleshly disposition to address on his or her mind. I like the way and that's because we are just in this world. The reign of sin and death, the dominion that it has is such that the seeds of the flesh would invariably be sown on the heart of every person and is inescapable for anyone. You know there's something Paul said in Ephesians 4:17 which we have looked at before that we might have missed. He said this I say therefore that you no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles work. I don't know if you notice the word no longer because no longer means you used to but you should no longer. So the effect of the church is to address areas of our lives where we had flaws, faults, certain um ways of acting, certain dispositions, traits, characters that are contrary to that which is of the nature of God, that which the Lord expects of us, that which he wants us to have. I I don't know if I'm communicating the thoughts I have in my mind to you. I'm saying that we all need that humility, that meekness to recognize I have things to fix. And I believe this is why James said in James 1:21, tell laying aside of filness and superfluity of nothingness. Receive with meekness the engrafted what? Word which is able to save your souls. He said receive with meekness. We could think about the meekness as just a general disposition that oh I am willing to learn. But there's also the meekness that I have things to change. Yes, I have things to address. I have areas of my life that need addressing, that need fixing, that need correcting. And when we recognize that, we all do. I don't think it's such a big deal anymore. I mean, if yours is serious, like really serious in such a way that other people, please ensure you double down. You're accountable so that it can be addressed properly. But it makes it it's it's it makes it such that we don't over personalize our problems and not to ignore them, but and it's such that we don't run away and feel overwhelmed by them. We have things to fix. We need to get serious and fix them. Now, it doesn't mean we should be unserious about addressing it. I'm sure that there will be people listening to me that would have really had and do have maybe terrible things they need to address in terms of their growth and work. And that's precisely the point. I mean, the hands of the Lord is stretched out towards you. He wants to help you. And he wants to fix you. He wants to make you right so that you can do all that he wants you to do. All right? So our mind is the place that determines our personality, our character, our disposition, our worldview, our outlook. Essentially what I'm saying, our mind is what defines our growth. Our growth is essentially about our mind. The state of our life is simply puts the state of our mind. Which means if our life will fulfill God's purpose, our mind must be aligned with God's purpose. If our minds are not aligned with God's purpose, our lives will not reflect the same. Having said all of that, we proceed to looking at some important points. So we said what do we need to do on our mind? There's the first part of our mind which is the knowledge part of the equation like oh we need to know but there's the other part relative to our mind that is about stature about growth. I would talk about what that means as we proceed. So I want us to go down Romans chapter 6 again. You recall that in Romans chapter 6 Paul pointed out to his audience that there were things they already knew and he was speaking rhetorically. He said Romans chapter 6 and verse three. Do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Christ were baptized into his death. You were baptized into Christ. You were baptized into his death. Like you know that you are dead to sin. You are alive unto God. He told them in Romans 6:5 as well as verse 6. For if we have been united together in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this that our old man was crucified within that the body of sin might be done away with that we should no longer be slaves of sin. So he's taking it for granted the things they know right he has said don't you know rhetorically that is you should know and you do know then he's repeating again we know that our old man has been crucified we know that the body of sin has been done away with he's talking about the flesh okay lastly in verse 9 he says we know that Christ haven't died death no longer has dominion over him he has taken he has gone through the entire experience that death demands and it he has exhausted his consequences and his demands so death has no right on him again there's so much to say about that simple statement Amen. Because he's speaking about death across all its ramifications. And the Bible speaks about death as first death and second death. Where first death includes the spiritual nature of sin. First death includes the mortality of our bodies. First death includes sickness, disease, corruption of matter which leads to natural disasters and the likes. First death also includes ades. Then death also includes the second death which is what the Bible calls lake of fire. So he's saying Christ having died has gone through all that death demands and has exhausted his demands. So death no longer has a right or dominion over him. Having said that he now says to us likewise you since we died with Christ reckon yourself to be dead indeed to sin. So you know you are dead to sin but it's time you record yourself to be dead indeed to see alive unto God. That word reckon is the word loisumi in the Greek the language Paul wrote in. And that word loisumi is an accounting term. It means to take account of something. Now you don't take account of what is not already the case. That means you only take account of reality. So if you are taking account taking inventory in a store, there are already goods and products that are in the store. And what you're simply doing is recording, affirming, recognizing what is already the case. So by time he tells us to recon, this is not just knowing. This is affirming, recognizing. And he's going to use another word in verse 13, which is to present. So we know things about ourselves. Then we need to affirm and to present those things. And this is what accounts for our stature. Our stature is not a matter of knowledge. Our stature speaks to the state of our reckoning. And I'm going to explain something very key in this regard to us in the next episode, the upcoming episodes. So please pay attention. See you on the next one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, [music] don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp, and follow us on all [music] our social media handles at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
