---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Place of the Gospel in your Life (Part 2)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gXfHVAYG2A
---

# The Place of the Gospel in your Life (Part 2)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, brothers and sisters. Welcome to episode two of the Plarus podcast. We're continuing from where we stopped. We're looking at the place of the gospel in our lives. We're talking about the different ways people view the gospel in their lives. How sometimes people have a less than appropriate view of the gospel in their lives. Some just see it as having this one time place of saving them from hell, from sin, from death. You know, some other people see it as a tool to solve their problem when it comes up, which we said there is the place for the supernatural. There's place for faith. And we're going to get to that. But that is not the right view of the gospel in our life. And we have already seen as well from the last episode that the place of the gospel in our life is the place of truth. Ephesians 1:13, the gospel is the word of truth. He said you trusted after you heard the word of truth that gospel of your salvation. Now we said if the place of the gospel in our lives is that of truth then it means it is always right. That's the first thing we should recognize. That means the gospel is right. Even where we have assumed particular way about something. If the gospel indeed is truth then it is right. Secondly, we saw that it means you cannot do anything against the gospel but for it. It's just like the truth that there is gravity in the earth space. You can't do anything against it but for it. When you act against it, invariably you are still acting for it. You know, so we must understand that kind of place that the gospel is claiming in our life. It is saying I'm the truth. Now we said if it is the truth claiming this all important place we need to know the things that it is claiming as truth and I said we're going to look at five things right we're going to look at five things that the gospel claims to be truth that have this very serious implication on us when we need to also see it prove itself to be the truth it's not enough for you to say yeah I'm the truth we must actually see it prove itself to be so you know and we ask the question how do you know that something is true like someone should ask you, oh, is what color of uh what what color is the shirt of that individual? What are you going to do to know the truth about that? You're going to have to look at the shirt in question. Then you're going to have to um think about it. Now, it happens sometimes in a split second. Like you look, your reasoning happens immediately and then you say, "Oh, it's green or it's blue, etc." So, we always know the truth by observation, by our senses. our senses and then by reason you know our thinking our reasoning would help us to know the truth some ask you oh what phone is that is it an iPhone or is it a Samsung you know you you're going to have to look at it then you have to reason about it then you can tell that oh it's this or that is that it's the same thing actually with the gospel if the gospel is claiming to be truth then it has to prove itself so and we stop just at the point where we're about to see how the gospel proves itself to be truth looking at the very first claim that the gospel makes you know and whether it proves itself on that very first claim that he makes now there are five claims the gospel makes so I'm going to for the sake of our understanding lay out all the five claims then we start looking at them one after the other you know until we have exhausted them and it's going to lead to the next thing we want to see on this podcast as a whole but I want to outline the different things the gospel claims and that it needs to show to be true. The first one is the gospel would claim the reality of God. Second thing he claims is the reality of redemption fulfilled in Christ Jesus. Third thing the gospel claims is the reality of who we are or you could say the reality of the new creation that we who are believed in Jesus are now a different people. We are different fundamentally by nature. The fourth thing that the gospel claims is um the reality of God's purpose which is why you are here. This is the reason God made you and is going to explain to you this is exactly precisely what God's purpose is. Not the very vague answers we sometimes get but something that you can see written clearly in black and white. This is God's purpose. And lastly, the gospel has this claim of the reality of growth that there is such a thing as growth that we need and this is how it happens such that we can fulfill God's purpose by that. Now let's take it one by one. The first thing is claiming is there is God and if there is God that's serious. It means we can't run our life on our terms. We have to find out what he made the world for. We have to find out also why then is the world the way it is etc. And to show us that that's the first claim and it proves that claim to be truth, we're going to the text where Paul handles this matter which is Romans 1 starting from 16. Now in Romans 1:16, Paul speaking, he says, "I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ." Right? For it is the power of God unto salvation. I like the fact that he mentions is the power of God to salvation because it makes it clear he's talking about the same gospel we saw in Ephesians chapter 1 and 13. Ephesians 1:13 says, "You trusted after you hear the word of truth, the gospel of salvation." And here he's saying, "Hey, the gospel of Christ is the power of God to salvation." So, we're talking about two different things. We're talking about about the same thing exactly. So, but what follows after is where it gets interesting. After saying, "I'm not ashamed of this gospel." And what leads him to saying that is that he was telling the Romans that guys, I've been trying to come to you to preach in Rome. I've preached everywhere, but I've been trying my best to get to you guys that in Rome to preach the gospel to you. And I don't care what it takes. I want to share the gospel with you. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Then he tells us two things right after that. He says, "In the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed." Then he says, "In the gospel, the wrath of God is revealed." Right? So in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed. And the gospel the wrath of God is revealed. Two things I mean and they seem to be contrary you know he say the righteousness of God is revealed. The idea there is God making you right. You are in a state where you are wrong. You're in a state where you are in sin. You're in a state where things have gone wrong. And in the gospel the righteousness of God is revealed. And but then in the same breath he's saying in the gospel the wrath of God is revealed. Okay. So what's happening here? Now this is not difficult. He explains why one thing is revealed and another thing is revealed in the same message. He said the righteousness of God is revealed to those who believe the gospel. But he says the wrath of God is revealed to those who suppress the truth. Do you see that? So he says when you believe the gospel the righteousness of God is revealed to you. But when you are suppressing the truth the wrath of God is revealed to you. What has he done there? He has equated the gospel with the truth. When you believe the gospel which is the truth the righteousness of God is revealed to you. That means you I mean all is saying in that sense is that you have that reality fulfilled to you. You are made right. You are made just by the gospel. But it says when you're suppressing the truth which in which simply means you're suppressing the gospel it says the wrath of God is revealed to you. Now that's serious because when it says you are suppressing the truth that's saying you you know the truth you're suppressing it. It's obvious to you. You know it's like you are it's kind of saying you are in denial and you know it's kind of saying you are rejecting you are deliberately hardening yourself against what should be obvious to you. For him to say this much about the gospel in his claim that is truth he had better give us evidence. And he does and let's go on to see what he says. So he talked about righteous God revealed in verse 17. The wrath of God revealed in verse 18. Then verse 19 says because what may be known of God was manifest in them. So he's saying the reason I'm telling you they suppressing the truth is because what may be known of God. So what he's saying is truth is this truth about God. That's why I told the first truth the gospel claims is the reality of God. He said what may be known of God was manifest in them. When you say in them, you can't be saying in them like in their liver or in their thongs or in their legs or in their nose, in their nose. It's rather saying is manifest in them in the sense of in their mind because God has shown it to them. Shown there. You can see it's talking about their eyes. What's that? Your senses observation. He has shown it to them. So it's manifest in them. Their mind should know because their their senses can observe. All right. Serious claim. You better prove it. Says because what may be known of God is manifest in them. For God has shown to them. Look at verse 20. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen being understood by the things that are made. So he's telling us that the natural world around us, the material world around us, you know, bears witness, gives evidence, leads to the conclusion of the reality of God. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are seen. So the invisible reality of God is clearly seen. Do you notice clearly seen again? Is your senses you can observe. Being understood which is your reason. So you can clearly see your senses and you can reason. Being understood. Now hold on. Do you remember that we said truth on any matter is by observation and reason, right? You want to find out the shirt the person is wearing. You have to turn and look at the person. uh observation being seen and you think about it that's green you have no right to then suppress it and say well it may be that if it is evident truth then you shouldn't be hardening your heart to it so he's saying the evidence is there it's clearly seen being understood so by observation and by reason they should be able to see the reality of God and he said even his eternal power and godhead. Now, what are they seeing that makes it evident that there is God? He's saying they are seeing two things that necessarily lead to the conclusion that there is God. And the first thing he's saying they are seeing is the finite nature of the world. Finite in the sense that it is limited, which has the idea that it's not unlimited. It's not something that just has always been there. is not infinite. If it's limited, has a limited scope particularly with time it began. Something that the Bible will address as well in Psalm 19 which Paul actually quoted in Romans 10 when he says everybody has the gospel because the evidence of it is present with nature even though still testified by people. is saying they can witness by the finite nature of the world day onto day night onto night by the finite nature of the world they can witness that it must have a cause that is equal or greater to it so he's saying the reality of God and his power and godhead should be evident to them it must have a cause that is equal or greater to it when you see something that is finite you already automatically recognize it can't just be there for it to be there it must have a cause equal or greater to it. You look at your phone or you look at a book you for this to have come about there must have been a cause equal or greater to it to see an effect the cause must be equal or greater to it. He said when we are seeing the natural world which clearly is not infinite. Secondly it says it is made. He says there is understood by things that are made. And the idea made here is not about ninitude. is about what we call contingency. That means the fact that the world that exists is not necessary for it to exist. It may not have been at all. So it's contingent. It's dependent. It is not by nature a necessary thing. A tingent thing would require a cause. And in that sense he says when you witness that the world is finite and contingent, it must have a cause equal or greater than it. Therefore, you cannot deny by what you can observe and reason that there must be a cause equal or greater than the world that we see. Notice what we see. A world that must have a cause must something must have the power to bring it forth. That world has intelligence in it. That world has character in it. There's morality where we can have this judgment of this is right, this is wrong, this is good, this is bad. Can say that's health, that's sickness. And we start to judge the health and sickness. This one is good, this one is bad. Clearly, if there's a cause equal or greater to it, that cause must have the power to bring it forth. But that means the cause must have the intelligence equal or greater to what it has brought forth. Character equal or greater to what it has brought forth. So if we're talking about what brought forth the kind of world that we're witnessing, we are saying an entity that has equal or greater power, intelligence, and character. greater ability slash power, intelligence, and character to have brought forth the world. We're invariably talking about a personal being. In that sense, we are saying God brought forth the world. He said you can't witness the world and start to deny that. Now, I agree there objections people raise up and we handle those objections on pleos.org. Several ep several things that are taught there to handle that. But for now, we have to wrap up. The first thing the gospel shows us truth is the reality of God. and that by the evidence of the world we can see, we have no reason to doubt the reality of God. Catch you on the next one as we see the other claims of truth of the gospel.
