---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 5)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zAQnxQ1EaTg
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 5)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Brothers and sisters, welcome to another episode of the Polaros podcast. Your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And I think we have been dwelling a bit on that last part of the equation which is God's purpose of recent because you've been following us and you have at this juncture gotten an understanding of what God's purpose is. We've seen that God's purpose is not a matter of our personal opinions or desires. It's rather a matter of his own revelation. If you talk about someone's purpose, whether it's your own purpose, it would be strange if someone imposes their own preference from you as your own purpose. Like maybe they want you to act in this way and then they say that's your purpose. That was going to be quite strange. And it's kind of the same way if we are found imposing on God what we prefer as his own purpose. And that's why we said on the subject matter of God's purpose, we must recognize the need for revelation, but separate the objective revelation we get from the direct revelation of God, which is the Bible, from the subjective revelation we get from experiences, voice of God, an inward witness, a knowing that we have a dream, a vision, even a desire or a drive to do something. We must separate those two things. I'm going to take that again. And you must separate the objective revelation we get from the direct revelation of God's word which is the Bible. I think we have examined the reason why we hold the scriptures as direct revelation as believers in Christ Jesus. We saw that there is the truth of the gospel. That truth of the gospel is fulfilled in the person of Jesus. The person of Jesus validates the scriptures and therefore for us the Bible is the authoritative document for truth and revelation. So the objective revelation of what God's purpose is found within scripture is not to be equated with the subjective revelation we can receive and we would even see the place of that as we proceed in this teaching that we can receive from God about his will for our life. We must separate the two. Now when I say we must separate the two is because one is foundational. The other is built on that foundation. The objective revelation of God's purpose found in his word is foundational. And then the subjective revelation you could receive and you may have received in fact about what the Lord will have you do here and there is built on the objective one. If you get it wrong relative to what is objectively God's purpose written in black and white in his word, you are likely going to not interpret your subjective revelation properly. If it is right, we must add. So if the subjective revelation you have is correct which it could be you would misinterpret it if you misunderstand the objective revelation of God's purpose in this world. Now not to belabor that matter what have we seen God's purpose to be you recall we have seen Ephesians 1:9 that we are told that God has made known the mystery of his will which is what he wants according to his good pleasure that is what he likes which he then proposed in himself. So we are told that God's will, God's good pleasure is what he proposed in himself. And we have also seen Ephesians 15 that what God wants and God likes his will and his good pleasure is sunship. Right? Ephesians 15 says he predestined us to sunship or adoption as sons or adoption of children by Jesus Christ. So he brought us to this thing called sunship by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will. So what they said God did according to to the good pleasure of his will is this act of predestining us. But whatever he predestined us to has to be the good pleasure of his will. That means in the light of the good pleasure of his will according to the good pleasure of his will. In the light of what he likes that he wants he predestined us to what? To sunship. Oh that must be precisely what the good pleasure of his will is. And of course we have other texts to attest to that and we have already began to study a bit on that. Remember Romans chapter 9 and 4 that the first thing Paul told us God reflected in Israel or in the Israelite is the reality of sunship which is his purpose. So we saw that realities reflected in them but that is central and primaries. We have said to you that God's purpose is sunship even further if you have been following you recognize that we have explained what sunship is from Romans chapter 8 and verse 15 that was all the way through to verse 17. Now you recall in Romans 8:15 Paul says we have not received the spirit of bondage again to fair. So it means that in this case when we become saved we are not put under bondage under slavery as was the case when we're under the reign of sin and death. So the manner of interaction the modus operandi that is at play the way things operate when we are saved is not the way they used to. We were not forced and beaten down to function under sin under the reign of sin death and darkness. In this case, we are by God's nature given that privilege to walk in the freedom of his life and in the freedom of his life. Now, I must be careful to say that there's a place to say we are servants of God. Even the place even more so to say we are slaves of God and slaves of righteousness all pointing to the reality of our nature. But these things are a matter of willingness because they are the positive things that we are natured to do. We want to do of his good will and his good pleasure. Philippians 2:12 and 13, God is working us both to will. So there's a desire, their affection and to love his good pleasure. This is much different from when you're under the flesh where someone is bound by certain conducts and habits that the person no longer wants to engage function with but he's still trapped in. We are not in that kind of a situation. So we have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear but the spirit of adoption or sunship whereby we cry aba father. Glory to Jesus. You have the spirit of sunship. And verse 16 explains what that spirit of sunship is all about. That is what are the realities of having the spirit of sunship. He says in verse 16 that when we put the spirit of sunship to work or to test, we are going to find out certain things. He said the spirit himself bears witness or gives evidence with our spirit that we are the children of God. The spirit gives this evidence. So when we put the spirit to test, the first reality we find about it is that we are children of God. And that word children, if you recall, means you have God's very nature. Technon from Titico, you have God's very nature. And these two spirits when put to test, the spirit God gave and our spirit that has since been totally subsumed by that spirit, totally fused with that spirit. We have the same testimony. We are children of God. And that's the first reality of sunship. But then there's another reality of sunship. You remember we began to see the last time on the podcast. He says that if children then we are hairs, hairs of God, joint hairs with Christ. And we went to Galatians 4 and we opened up the concept of being hairs where we saw that a child even though is indeed already the master of all things differs not from a slave. And I was explaining that the word child there was not technon as in this case was another word pies that I was talking about an infant. If you have an infant you give birth to your child and the child is unable to yet speak and unable to yet process complex reasoning at that point of birth age 1 2 3 down to around a reasonable point where you can tell now this person can handle more complex matters. But at that very early stage you can't expect the child to direct the activities of your house. The child cannot direct the activities of your business is unable to function as an hair despite the fact that he's master of all. So the reality of being an air of God which is what defines sunship because the concept of sunship is the idea that usually the male child usually the first child the firstborn would be given responsibility over what the father owns is where the concept of being and here is from you recall that that's why in talking about sunship with Israel God said Israel is my son my first born and that's because the firstborn privilege which is the privilege of being an hell is committed to all of them not some of of them. Not one of them, not the eldest amongst them, but all of them. And that's the reality of sunship God was depicting in them that Paul is explaining here in Romans chapter 8. So when you say I'm a son of God, you're not speaking to the effect of gender, that I'm a male child of God or something to that effect. You are simply saying I'm an God. You could even just say that I'm an God. But this in this case, you're not saying I'm an God like Elazar could have said he was the hair to Abraham's household because Abraham did not have a child. In this case, why we say I'm a son of God is because you are God's child who is also his hair. The reality of God's purpose is that he wants us as his child. Remember that we said when you're God's child, you are to fellowship with him. That's the very essence of this relationship. Father to child, father this father to son or father to child relationship that we have. I should say father to child less. I'm saying father to son like male gender only. So that's the very essence of this father to child relationship that we have. It's primarily about that fellowship. That's why I said we cry aba father. So we are in fellowship. We have this beautiful fellowship with God and we are fellowshipping with him and not just that we are walking in our nature and in our character because we are children of God. But then where we stop this is with the question what are we then to do as hears of God. What does it mean we're of God? Right? We've opened up the word. We saw that being of God means God has allotted something to us. There are things he has given to us to do. There are things he has given to us to fulfill. There are things he has given to us to carry out. Remember the word is cleronomous. There are two words there. There's the word claros that means a lot, a portion, a piece of property or land or anything at all. It could be a car. And then this person is giving you a lot. He is assigning that other word where we have no rooted in that word no means the person is ordering, assigning, instructing that you should have this lot. So claronom the assigned lot is your claronomia your inheritance the assigned lot you as a claronomos heir you are one who has been assigned a lot and our question then is what lot exactly have we been assigned and I told us at the wrap of the last episode that there are two lots we have been assigned in this sense I'm saying that there are two two brackets of inheritance that we have let's put it that way so there are two classes of inheritance that we have and I want to open up the first one to us today and about the best text to do that would be Colossians and in chapter 3 maybe I could say from Romans 8 that what we know God owns that he all lost to us without any doubt is all that he has created I say this way that if you think about existence there are just two classes of things that exist the selfexistence which is God I am that I am and then created existence which is the world the cosmos that God has made and so what God can give to anyone that he owns other than himself is the world he has created the created world the created cosmos that's what God can give to any individual. So if you say what can God give to us to inherit only one thing which is the entirety of creation and in fact I should mention that when we speak about God's inheritance what is consistent is we are told that God is giving the entirety of creation to humanity so he's giving the entirety of creation to humanity is much like saying oh I want to be able to stack up like $1 billion for my child and you go working that by 18 is going to get it so you're working then you give birth to the child you are still working working rather and your um investment is compounding then you I want to give that over to the child. It's the same way God deals with bringing about all of creation first and then humanity last because he wants man to inherit this world he has created in the way that he wants it to be which is under the reign of life. And let me just give you a few text before we go to Colossians um 3 and wrap up there. For example, I think that's Mark 5. I forgot the exact verse now. Maybe five or six where he said the meek will inherit the earth. And he was describing what we call the biatitudes but people of faith. So those who are of faith will inherit the earth which is what we mean that they would bring about the new heavens and new earth. So they will inherit the earth. It was also said about Abraham. Look at the word earth there. It's talking about all creation by implication. The concept of earth there is not just about the earth in particular but all of creation. Same way Romans chapter one talk to Abraham and say he called to be here of the whole world. You see here of all things. So that's what God wants us to inherit. Now the time is running on us for this episode. So I'm going to take us all the way to Colossians chapter 3. I'll simply read and make a statement and assertion and we're going to be picking it up from there as we see the first class of inheritance we have first assignment that we have from God what he has given us to inherit Colossians 3:22 he said born servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh not with eye service as men pleasers but in sincerity of heart fearing God and whatever you do do it artily as to the Lord and not to men knowing verse 24 that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance for you serve the Lord Christ. Do you notice the word inheritance there? And he say you're going to receive the reward of the inheritance of what you are doing in the natural as an employee born servant in this case which in context of our world we say an employee. You receive the reward of the inheritance that natural work you do is calling it an inheritance or an assignment for your serving the Lord Christ. Our first assignment or inheritance we are seeing is what we can call or term a natural inheritance. And we're going to pick it up from here next session as we'll see what's all about this natural inheritance as well as what our second class of inheritance is as well. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
