---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-05-20
episode: "Preservation in the Newness of Life (Part 9)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g649UW34Z6s
---

# Preservation in the Newness of Life (Part 9)

Welcome to Pleros podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today.

Let's get right into it. Welcome back to the Pleros podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. In this particular episode, we continue our study on preservation in the newness of life. We have already seen that it's an important subject matter, and the context of our study has been how we fulfill God's purpose. We know that to fulfill God's purpose, we need growth. We have seen what we are to grow in is the newness of life, but this life itself must then be studied and examined to know the things that are available in this life for us.

## The Framework of the Newness of Life

There was a particular summation that we made to explain the new life that we have to us. We said that this is the life God intended for man at the beginning, which is going to be consummated at the end. So, it's the life that God offered to man, what we call the tree of life, which is going to be consummated at the end when we enter into what the scriptures will often call eternal life.

But then, we're also told that though there are several realities of this life, there are some things that are not available to us today. For instance, if you see 2 Timothy chapter 1 verse 9 all the way through 10 or 11, you will mention that there's immortality in this new life that Christ has given on to us. But, 1 Corinthians chapter 15 severally makes it clear that immortality and incorruption is not going to be effected until the Lord's coming. So, immortality and incorruption would only be effected at the Lord's own behest or by God's own initiative at the coming of the Lord Jesus.

Now, with that in mind, it means we know well everything available or possible in this life is something we can walk in other than immortality and incorruption. And it's from that very point we began our study of the newness of life when we then ask the question, what is available to our bodies if immortality is not, but also the question, what is available to the cosmos or what is available to man relative to the cosmos if incorruption is not available today.

We have answered what is available to our body in the absence of immortality, and the answer to that is healing. So, we still have mortal bodies, but we have the healing power of God available to us to walk in. The other question is, what is available to the cosmos or to us as humans relative to the cosmos? And the answer to that is what we have called preservation.

## Biblical Evidence for Preservation

We have established the reality of preservation from several texts. We saw the authority that the Lord Jesus took over the cosmos in several instances for the sake of the preservation of men.

There is the instance of the storm when they were in the boat on the sea, and he said, "Peace be still." Matthew 8:23-26, and Mark 4 verse 39 downwards as well. Then we saw the other text, Matthew 14, where the Lord was walking on water, and then Peter seeing the wind get and the seas get boisterous, he was in fear, then the Lord helped him, and when they got into the boat, the winds calmed or became still. So, this was one instance where he was walking by faith or authority without speaking a word. In the other instance, he spoke. So, there is such kind of faith where you have spoken and then you are just holding fast and you didn't not see anything. You could say something, it doesn't take away from it, but didn't have to say anything as well.

So, we are seeing instances where we see preservation happening by the command of faith. By words spoken. Another instance, of course, is the Lord taking authority over the cosmos relative to the fig tree, Matthew 21, Mark 11. And this was by the command of faith. He spoke words. In Acts 27, Paul had his the deliverance of himself and the other people with him on the boat, and we don't see this happening by words spoken. We rather see a pointer to prayer, something Paul would reference in 2 Corinthians chapter 1 as well.

So, we have established that there is preservation in the midst of life. We have seen the role of the ministry of angels in this in this regard. You recall Paul mentioning that an angel of the Lord stood by him and spoke to him about the preservation of himself and all those in that boat or in that ship.

Then, the Lord mentioned in Matthew chapter 26 that he could have prayed the Father and would have more than 12 legions of angels available to preserve him and deliver him from the persecution that was impending, which is his crucifixion. Also, Satan was going to mention it to the Lord. It says, "If you are the son of God, throw yourself down." He said he would give his angels charge over you. So, all the time he wanted to get him to walk in the flesh to prove a point, which is essentially walking in pride.

But the Lord, of course, did not use that temptation, but what Satan said, what the enemy said remains true notwithstanding. There is that authority, there is that right for preservation that is promised or guaranteed in God's word. So, it's a matter of what exists in the covenant that God made with the Israelites, which is reflective of what God wants to relate with with humanity on. And we saw the text on that, Exodus chapter 23, the angel of the Lord will be given to keep them in their ways and to bring them into the land, Exodus 23:20 as well as Exodus 23:23.

We even went all the way back to see that it's a reality that the fathers had walked in where Jacob said, "The God who has fed me all my day long, who has redeemed me from all evil." The angel who has redeemed me from from all evil. So, the connection between the ministry of angels and this reality of preservation from evil is very strong in God's word.

Now, we mentioned several texts, you know, even Psalm 34, Psalm 35. Just to be sure, Psalm 130 just came to mind. Psalm 103 is one of the texts from which we can establish the truth of preservation. Psalm 103 and verse one downwards. Here he mentions in verse three, "Who forgives your iniquity?" Exactly. "Who forgives all your iniquities? Who heals all your disease? Who redeems your life from destruction?" You can see very similar to Genesis 48 and verse 15 where Jacob speaking to Joseph told him, "God who has fed me all my life long, the angel who has redeemed me from all evil." So, preservation is well spoken of in God's word. It would be very difficult to say it's not something God related with humanity on, but maybe particularly you could say it's covenant people on. Of course, we know that's supposed to be available for all people of faith in redemption.

## Conviction and Consciousness of Preservation

I think the very first point I want to get across is you must have rock-solid conviction about the fact that there is the right to preservation in the newness of life that we have entered into by the work of redemption Christ has done. There is that right. And whilst people walked in that right before Christ's coming as something that will be post paid as is redemption is the grounds upon which we can walk in God's life, but we are walking in it neither ahead of the fulfillment of redemption. We should walk in it as a matter of a right that has been prepaid. So, redemption has been accomplished in newness of life is as and preservation is available there. It should be a settled conviction on our heart we can believe and trust God for preservation. So, that if the Lord sees us not doing that, like he said to his disciples, he'll say, "Why are you fearful?" You know, "O ye of little faith." Or, "Why do you have no faith?" Just showing us that it's something that we ought to have conviction of as first level of faith, but not just conviction as we'll see. It's something we ought to have reckoning or consciousness of that we are a people preserved and delivered.

## The Role of Prayer in Preservation

Now, we saw already at the start how this preservation is walked in. How do we walk in preservation in newness of life? We saw the Lord walking in it by the command of faith, but we would generally be mistaken if we think that's all there is to walking in preservation because God's word doesn't give us that picture and I think it's a truth about faith as a whole that we can use the opportunity we have with examining preservation to establish that faith is exercised not just in the instance of the command of faith, but also a whole lot in prayer that leads to the command of faith or that follows the command of faith. I'm going to say that again. Faith is exercised not just in the instance of the command of faith, but in prayer preceding the command of faith or proceeding from it. That is after the fact of it.

Okay, let me use an example. There was an instance Elijah spoke the word. He told the king that there is not going to that is always going to begin to rain, you know, he told him confidently it's going to begin to rain. He should get going. He should start running and get back to his palace. He told Ahab that, but the next thing he does, he goes to pray. And he's found praying, right? I mean he's insistent and persistent in prayer. He has a servant go check the sky if I recall now at least maybe seven times. I don't I hope I'm correct. Three or seven times, but I think it's seven times. He has him go check it again and again and again.

That tells us something, right? So, we see that he did that. Now, what we notice about even when the Lord is teaching his disciples to have the command of faith when they are ministering in Matthew 17 is that he told them that it's because of your own belief, but this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting, which we have said no matter we look at it, we can still say it's about the unbelief going out. If you say it's about the demon, but it required or like maybe you say it's a sickness and this particular sickness it requires that you are stronger in faith. It's maybe it's just be because it's not really the sickness, it's really your own belief relative to that kind of a situation. So, whatever the case, we are seeing that our prayer played a role in the state of their faith that was to be exercised at the instance of their ministry.

On the instance of ministering to a condition, we mustn't separate or we mustn't overplay any of the sides. I think is the point I want to make. There's an important role of prayer, even supplication, in preservation that we must not miss.

## Preservation in the New Testament

Now, I want to take us through the text. In the last episode we already saw Acts chapter 12, constant prayer was made for Peter then by the ministry of angels a deliverance was wrought for him. We saw 2 Corinthians chapter 1, Paul's confidence that because Christ has been raised from the dead that same power delivers him from death. And in this case he was talking about the reign of death that seeks to destroy whether naturally or through men that God preserves him and delivers him.

Let's quickly look at that 2 Corinthians again, then we look at other texts immediately after. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 he said and verse 8, "We do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, of our troubles, that's persecution which came to us in Asia, that we were burdened beyond measure above strength, so that we despaired even of life. Yes, we had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves but in God who raises the dead." So, notice the basis of the trust, the redeeming God, God who raises the dead. Who is able to redeem from the state of mortality, corruption, evil that world.

Now, verse 10 says, "Who delivered delivered us from so great a death and does deliver us." So, God delivers us, it does deliver us, in whom we trust that he will still do what? Deliver us. So, it's a constant faith said in in whom we trust he will still deliver us. Very important, but how? Verse 11, "You also help in together in prayer." So, it means Paul himself was praying. Then he's saying, "You folks in Corinth, you are helping together in prayer for us that thanks may be given by many persons on our behalf for the gifts granted to us through many." And there's a reason why this is important because when we are preaching the gospel there is more contention at play than just the regular order of our lives. And so there's a need to supplicate in that regard. I'll show us other texts that would that would communicate the same thought.

Um 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and in verse 1, "Finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may run swiftly and be glorified, just as it is with you. The word of the Lord runs with and be glorified just as it with you, that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for not all men have faith."

So, we are seeing them pray. Said that, "Finally, brethren, pray for us." That is the word of the Lord is going to spread, but also that we are delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for not all men have faith. Let me show you one more text. Philippians chapter 1. So, we see preservation effected by prayer, not just by the command of faith.

Philippians chapter 1 and verse 19, "For I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayer and the supply of the spirit of Jesus Christ." And we have good reason to take it that he's saying prayer is supplying the spirit of Jesus Christ or the power of the spirit of Jesus Christ. So, the same spirit that will effect incorruption at the end is what is supplied in prayer to effect preservation or deliverance.

I'll look at one more text before we wrap up, and that's Philemon and 22. So, we have preservation can be effected by prayer. In Philemon 22, there's one chapter, so I mean Philemon verse 22. It says, "But meanwhile, also prepare a guest room for me, for I trust." So, you can see that Paul was really in faith. He keeps using that word, "I trust, I believe and persuaded that through your prayers I shall be granted to you.

Preservation is effected by the command of faith. We've seen instances of that. Preservation is effected by prayer. And we can just have as much confidence when we pray as an instance when we give the command of faith. And there's a connection there. We're going to look at it in the next episode between our prayer and command of faith that we ought to give as at any instance. All right. Thank you so much.

God bless you. For few God's purpose, see you on the next one.

We trust you are blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleroma.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, His purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the pleroma community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at pleroma_org. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in His purpose.
