---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 1)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dEcREef63Y0
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 1)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, brothers and sisters. Welcome to another episode of the Plearos podcast. We have seen a couple of things already and I think we are really getting to the core parts of what we want to start to look at within this podcast. As you know, we say it's a daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And that last part of the equation, God's purpose is precisely what we are getting to now. Before now we have been seeing the place that the gospel holds in your life or in the life of any person whatsoever. And the gospel makes this heavy claim to hold the place of truth in the life of everybody. And not just by imposing itself to be so but by proving itself to be that to be the truth. We saw that it proves itself you know in different regards. It first it proves the reality of God by observation and reason. proves the necessity of redemption and its fulfillment in Jesus Christ. And third, we saw that it proves the reality of the new creation who we are in Christ now. Um but then you know at the beginning of that particular um episode on taking um the place of the gospel in your life, I said that there about five things that the gospel claims to be true that we must understand to know its place in our lives. you know and we have seen three of them. Now the fourth one which is going to open up another world of study to us is the reality of God's purpose. So one of the fundamental things, one of the key things, the major things we learn in the gospel is the reality of God's purpose. Now I'm going to be starting from Ephesians chapter 1 which happened as well to be the chapter we began the earlier study with. So Ephesians 1, you know, we started Ephesians 1 the last time with Ephesians 1:13 where Paul said we believed on Jesus or we trusted in Jesus after we heard the word of truth which is the gospel of our salvation. But before he said that he has said a lot of important things that make up the truth of the gospel which he said we believed when we received salvation. And one of the things he said the gospel is about or that the gospel reveals or that the gospel tells us is this subject matter of purpose. Now before I go any further you know before now we have said anything that is truth is something that you can prove by observation and reason to be so. So any claim of truth can be examined by our senses with our mind to confirm that it's actually so. And that is absolutely true. But then there's one problem. There's one question of truth that cannot be proven by observation and reason. So before I show us the next text, I want us to resolve that that tension. There is one question of truth that cannot be proven by observation and reason. So say someone I I like using this example of let's say you see someone sleeping on a bed. So someone is lying on the bed but there are two people they walk into the room they see the person lying on the bed but the person is fully covered. So they were unsure and the person was like what's that on the bed? Maybe the person nobody should be in their room I guess and says what's that on the bed and one of them moves closer the person the person who heard the other person's question moves closer and checks and sees oh that's a human being you know and you say so and the person starts to ask question look at the person has asked the truth question what's that on the bed which the answer is that's a human being it's a person so it's not like someone put stacks of clothes there or something um then they start to ask other questions about that person oh who is that exactly you know there are many things they can know about the person whilst the person is sleeping on the bed without ever waking that person up am I right you know they could take the blood sample of the person let's imagine the person is really stoned out or something then you take the blood sample you can find out maybe even the person's genotype I mean if you have all the details on a system just from the person's blood sample you should even be able to tell many things about the person his name his history maybe in countries that are like that social security number blah blah blah blah. Now, have you noticed that we have answered a lot of questions about that person without ever speaking to the person? So, we can tell who the person is, how the person came to be, that is the person's parent. We can tell the person's name. We can tell what the person does by observation and reason. Because these are informations we can readily tell. In fact, we can tell the person's height without ever needing the blood sample. You could just measure the person, tell the height, you could tell the person's weight, etc. Where I'm going to with this is that despite all the things you can answer about that individual without ever directly speaking to the person, one question you cannot answer without speaking to the person is the question, what is the person trying to accomplish? What's the person trying to get done? You can't know. And even if you say you can know by, you know, reading it up somewhere, maybe the person said or wrote something, that's exactly my point. You can only know because the person has revealed it before. You can't know what someone is trying to accomplish, what someone is all about, what the person is trying to do, what the person's purpose is, except the person reveals it. That's a why question. Now, and interestingly, whatever the person's purpose is, what's trying to accomplish is a real thing. There's a real there's a real why that the person has. There's a real um purpose, desire that the person wants to the person wants to see fulfilled. It's a real thing is there's a truth to it that there is this thing this person wants to do. Yet this truth cannot be known except the person in question reveals it. And this the unique place the question of purpose holds is the one area of truth that is exclusively known by revelation. Which implies that even if we answer the question God God made this world that we are in brought forth everything including humanity and now something has gone wrong in the world and we have been redeemed by the death and burial and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And because of that redemption, now we are new creations. We have answered all these nice questions, all these important questions, all these very very necessary things for us to know. Yet the burden remains. All right. Fine. Fine. Thank you very much. There's God. He made us. Things have gone wrong. He has saved us beautiful. Why are we here? This one question is not resolved by observation and reason. This is that one question that can only be resolved by revelation. It has to be revealed. And that's exactly what the scripture says as well. That's what Paul says in um Ephesians chapter 1 after he says oh yeah you guys or before rather he said you guys have believed the word of truth. He said this in Ephesians 1 and in verse 9 and I want you to pay attention to it. Ephesians 1:9 Paul speaking he says haven't made known to us. us. Ephesians 1:9 haven't made known to us the mystery of his will. Now let me just give you context to that. So even though I don't um I'm trying to because of the limitation of time for the podcast which is deliberately done to ensure that um we are able to give you the word on the go without um shutting out people. There are other places you get the word in more extended format. So for that reason I won't want to read text in an extended form. That's all I'm trying to say. But the basic context you need to this verse Ephesians 1:9 is that he's talking about God right he has said in the earlier verses that we are redeemed by Christ because God worked it out with his wisdom and prudence with his wisdom and prudence. Then verse 9 says he did this having made known to us. So redemption happened you know because sin happened because God had first made known to us. And that's something we'll get to later. haven't made known to us the mystery of his will. Having made known to us the mystery of his will. Amen. Now, you know, usually when people see the word mystery, different ideas can flaw their mind. The word mystery can mean a kind of like um maybe an information that is for a select group. And truly the root word has such an um such implications as well that oh it's only for some people is limited to some people maybe some form of esoteric knowledge but the use of mystery is not pointing to that at all because it's very clear all he made known is the mystery of his will it's called mystery because it's in is an information that requires revelation which is true of every other category of what we call mystery just the sense that this information requires revelation and he's saying God's will requires revelation. So he has made known this mystery non-observatory information of his will. This thing that needs revelation is will. We could say the same about your will. Right? If I meet you in person and um we are just getting to know each other, I could easily tell many things about you. I could shake your hand, tell that you are male or female, tell you are um you know fair or dark in complexion. I could tell that you are this or that. I could go on and on. I could tell many things about you. Um just spot on seeing you, but then I would have to ask you like what are you up to? What are you about? What's what's it what's it all for you? You know, what are you after? What are you doing? And maybe nothing. You know, maybe for you it's just like you're just trying to go through the motion, take everything in and all is also fine. But that will be the mystery of your will. That's what you want. I can't know it except you tell me. It's the same way with God. It says he has to make known to us the mystery of his will. Right? So he has to make it known to us. But what we are being told in this text that is that he has made known to us. So he has made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure which he proposed in himself. Wow. This this is a lot. He's saying he has made known the mystery of his will. That's one thing we should note will. Second one according to his good pleasure. That's another thing to note. Good pleasure which he proposed in himself. And that's the third and big word purpose at play. Now this word I want you to recognize. If he says the will he has made known to us is according to his good pleasure. It means let's let's use an illustration here. If I say so, so person did X according to Y, you know, or he went to the market according to what what he was told. Clearly, whatever follows the according to preceded the first thing that was said. So if it says he has made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, it means that the will of God here follows his good pleasure. Again it means the good pleasure is first and then the will is after. Now this may not be a matter of time may just be a matter of order but very important. I don't want to get you confused there. So God has a good pleasure. That's what he's saying. And is on the premise of that good pleasure that he has a will. The word good pleasure here in the language that Paul wrote his letter in which is the Greek is the word hudokia. It simply means what someone just likes, what seems good to someone. So he's saying that God has made known what he wants which is according to what he likes. So what God's what God wants is according to what he likes. And that is exactly what he proposed in himself. So God's purpose is saying here was not fored on him by any pressure whatsoever. He says it's simply a matter of what he likes good pleasure which then became what he wants which he went on to determine to have and therefore is his purpose. So God's purpose is his good pleasure his will all the same. The purpose is the good pleasure and the will. His will is his good pleasure is his purpose. So they are all the same. We could use those words inter interchangeably. If you say God's will, you say God's purpose. We say God's good pleasure in this sense where Paul is speaking Ephesians 1:9, they are all the same thing. So, and he has to reveal it. He has revealed to us the good pleasure of his will. He has made it known to us. Okay, fine. What is this good pleasure of his will that happens to be his purpose that he has made known to us? Paul, you said he has made it known to us. We need to know what's that exactly. And indeed, Paul tells us what exactly it is. In the earlier verses, he had actually mentioned it. So I want you to go to Ephesians 1 and verse 5 to see what Paul called the good pleasure of God's will that he has made known to us. The good pleasure of his will which is also his purpose which is what he proposed in himself. Ephesians 1 and verse 5 see the text. It says having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will. Now do you remember the word according to? You do something according to means the thing that followed after the according to was before the earlier one. So because of the good pleasure of God's will that he has he predestined us to adoption as sons. He did the act of predestination because of the good pleasure of his will. Which would imply that whatever the predestination was onto has to be the good pleasure of his will. Which is telling us here is adoption as sons. What we can term and I'm going to explain in the next episode sunship. We can say God's will, good pleasure and purpose is sunship. Thank you. &gt;&gt;
