---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 12)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ymh-HZC6P2A
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 12)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome back to the Pleus podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose and I may add for your life. Now we are looking at the subject matter the mind of man. I really hope you're following. I really hope he's blessing you. And I'm telling you we're getting into some very critical part of our examination. Even though we need to like look at several more texts to butress things we have said just to bring us um up to speed we have we are looking at this subject matter because we have seen that God's purpose for us is sunship. He wants us to walk as his child and as his hairs to walk in fellowship with him and his nature and character then to carry out our natural and spiritual assignment. We have seen the road map of walking in his purpose how it unfolds. It unfolds with our daily devotional life. We we have seen how our natural assignments unfold. We have seen our spiritual assignment unfold from disciplehip all the way to leadership. Now having the road map does not guarantee carrying out God's purpose. There is the need for disciplehip, perfecting of the saint, strengthening to be able to bear the burden of purpose to fulfill it. So that you know that your journey is this particular way. You have the routes to go, you know the turnings to make etc. doesn't mean you have the foil in your car to run the race. So it doesn't mean you have the strength to carry the load. And the foiling of your car, the building of yourself to be able to bear the load, the weight, the burden of purpose is the path that we're examining um right now because after we saw the road map, we saw to fulfill God's purpose, we need growth. Like the Lord Jesus said, he said he that knows my will but does not prepare and do my will or according to my will be beaten with many stripes. So it is not good enough to know God's will is important that you prepare and then do his will. All right? So that preparation spiritual growth that preparation disciplehip that preparation perfecting of the saints is precisely what brings us to our study of this subject matter. Now we have we have been we have been looking since then at the uh what's it called the mind of man and we particularly focused on Ephesians um Ephesians 4:17 where after Paul spoke about the work of the church he said the result of it is our walk must change we should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles do and not walking as they do he says is not walking in the futility of their mind because their mind is lacking something right And he doesn't stop there. He goes on to give four other descriptions of or explanations of why they work like that. And his repeated emphasis is on the mind. He says the facility of their mind, their understanding is darkened. Mind again being alienated from the life of God. That one is nature. Because of the ignorance that's in them, that's mind, right? Ignorance, knowledge. So mind. Then it says because of the blindness of their heart. So there's a reality they should be seeing but they are blind to by other things stuffing their face. You know, it's like when you wear blindfolds, it's not because you lack sight and should ordinarily see. It's because you are overwhelmed by falsehood or by I mean in this case, you are overwhelmed by the blindfold, but you're overwhelmed by falsehood by contrary information. It's pretty the natural state of man, right? Man by virtue of our minds, we are designed to see truth. But sometimes people can become hardened, overwhelmed, clogged by falsehood. Um, in fact, the word he used, I don't want to get into it, is a word that speaks to that effect where someone's eyes is clogged by um, I don't know what it's called medically, but callus or so, if I'm correct, if I remember the Greek word. So, the person's eyes clogged and it affects the person's sight and we must be careful like as long as we are in this world, there's the constant influence and um, the barrage of all kinds of things that we can easily say, well, I don't agree with that. But if it overwhelms you, your mind may be blinded to truths affecting your work. in the same and the reality of who we are. Now, what I just want to point out here is when he says don't walk like they do, he's saying don't walk like they do in their mind and in their nature. But the emphasis was stronger on the mind. So, he's showing us that there's a reality of the nature of man and the reality of the mind of man, which in examining this subject matter, the mind of man required us to um look at the reality of man as a whole. Right? And we saw 1 Corinthians 5:23, 2 Corinthians 4:16. Well, in looking at that, we have seen that man can be said to be spirit, soul, and body. But we must be careful what we think the soul means if we want to stay with the meaning within Bible. Or with 2 Corinthians 4:16, we can appreciate man as outward man and inward man, right? I hope you recall all of this detail. Now we in appreciating man as outward and inward man I I said I I think there's probably no better text to help um unpack that even though there are several several texts we could use to unpack that. We looked at the example of the Lord Jesus is fleshed in a corruption but his soul went to and soul there was particularly speaking about the vitality of his spirit. to a spirit as a vital um entity went to this in the account of Lazarus and the rich man. When the Lord was speaking, he showed their outward the outward man of both individuals um living out for a while, one rich, one poor, then both of them dying. So the outward man being buried, losing his vitality. So you can see the outward man lost his soul but the inward man still had his his own right. So and then the inward man went on to ades and inades we see that their mind had a spirit. Now I made a very vital point. I said we can describe man as body with a brain and spirit with a mind. Right? So man is a spirit with a mind that also has a body with a brain. What I like about that 2 Corinthians 4 that spoke about man as outward man and inward man is that he puts the emphasis on the inward man. He will go on in 2 Corinthians 5 and one to call the outward man the tent or even a cloth. So um we must place serious premium on our inward man. Now they are codependents and there's there are questions to answer there that you know limitations on the natural in this world by function of the reign of sin and death can place limitations on the expression of the spirit right um and the spirit with the mind so there are real issues there to unlock but I don't think this is the place for that so I'll stick with what we are trying to look at which is things that will affect spiritual growth some other time for sure I believe we'll get to that. So um man is spirit with mind as much as his body with a brain and we mustn't downplay the importance of man's mind. Now as at the last episode we have seen there are couple of aspects to man's mind. You can say a couple of parts but I will rather say aspects of one the mind has one thing and then there are these different aspects to man's mind and I started with one of the earliest texts where the word mind was used. I think it's even the very first instance of the use of the word mind in the New Testament Greek. The word nos in this instance which is Luke 24 and verse 45 said Jesus opened their understanding or their mind their know that they may comprehend the scriptures and it was about their reasoning. So their reasoning had been closed to a particular grasp and understanding of the scripture. I'm looking for an illustration that will work in this regard. So um if you're reasoning about how certain things play what selling fees mean let's say um what example can I use let's say you see a device that when it's maybe blinks a certain way you have believed it means such and such a thing and then and because it always so happens that it means that and probably is implication playing out and you don't know the cause and Then someone points out to you that oh the actual cause of the device doing this is that then you're like oh now I get it. I I now know why I thought it always did this whenever this happened but this is really what is making it happen. Um sorry. So that is exactly what the Lord did rather he did something to their reasoning by virtue of his explanation. So his explanation made it clear opened what was unseen by them was close to them became open to them by virtue of um his explanation. All right. Now so we see that in the nos there's the reasoning part of the nos and I said you could think about this yourself as a function of observation you could tell that when I say something to you you reason about it. Uhhuh. And the fact that I said it to you, you're reasoning about it. Let's say it's an unresolved matter. You're thinking about it for a while. It goes into your memory. So, it's something you are ruminating on on the reasoning side of your mind and it's also become part of your memory. Um, for example, let me use myself as an example. There are I came from a background with different world views and there are certain worldviews I don't hold to be true right now, but I'm a memory. So I could regurgitate the world view and say yeah this is what this world view owes and this is what that world view owes. But in my conviction side of my mind I do not believe it to be true. And I could explain why I do not believe it to be true the same way you could explain why you don't think 2 + 2 is equal to 5. But I have that information. It has gone into my mind and I've dealt with it on the reasoning side of my mind. It is part of my memory. I can't throw it away since I've placed value on the information and I've ruminated on it quite some. So it is in my memory as well. But something has happened. I did something as I was reasoning on the information. Right? So [snorts] I'm by reasoning, pondering, medicating, thinking through on the information that I've had about many different worldviews. I mean a lot of them. I have arrived at a conclusion by function of reason by that is not correct and so if someone should ask me like what do you think about this I'll say I don't think it's true now I'm speaking out of my conviction I might not even at the moment the person asked me be reasoning on it again because I have done the reasoning it has already gone to my conviction what I think is right or not what I agree with that those things are not correct okay let's go back to our simple example 2+ 2= five. You hear it and and you're like, "No, that's not correct. 2 + 2 like really 1 2 + 1 2 that's not five. 1 2 1 2 is four." Right? And if someone asks you, don't you think 2 + 2= 5? You don't need to think about it at that moment. You have thought about it before. I don't think it is. Like when the information came to me, I've reasoned on it. I is in my memory the instance when the person said it and I thought about it. I already I'm speaking to you for my conclusion. This happens a lot even in Bible study. So there are times you have taught something before from scripture like and I mean at the moment where you were studying the the matter in question you really gave it a lot of time and you pulled through the scriptures you examined every instance you checked through. You put the details together you know the entire process of Bible interpretation. you're looking at the biblical data and then you are reasoning with it with your philosophical theology going on like okay what's right here and so on and so forth. You might even have maybe made recourse to historical data as well to appreciate um the view that the church across different traditions have held on the matter and eventually you arrived at a conclusion that you believe to be true um based on the evidence sufficient evidence that you have. Upon arriving at that con conclusion, if someone was to ask you about that subject matter, you will give your conclusion without necessarily at the time thinking through it again. Which means there's really an aspect of your mind that just stores your conclusion. And it's complet it's different from the reasoning itself. Like these are convictions you hold to. The reasoning leading up to you holding those convictions are there but they are not necessarily present at the moment. Once you have the conviction, yes, you have the conviction. That is your conviction. In fact, the second word for mind, I don't know the right pronunciation is d i a n o i a danoa. The the second word is often times used for things like that. Not always. Sometimes used for the faculty of the mind as well. But that word d through and the word no as well which has to do with no is mind. But the root of no has to do with knowing. So he's just talking about the place where all kinds of knowing happen which is the mind the faculty where it happens. So danoya has this sense of what you have known to conclusion. You have known through to a conclusion in some instances is like that which is talking about the conclusion that someone owes. For example doia is seen in Ephesians 1:18. It says that the eyes of your understanding may be enlightened. This becomes your conviction. So there's the reasoning where oh that's nice but you have agreed. So it has become your conviction. Your understanding has been enlightened. Your understanding is not darkened. In fact, I think Danoya, could I be right? I think Danoa is also used in Danoya is used in no is used in verse 17 Ephesians 4 is used in verse 18. So I can't pick up the right word. So you can say oh this part of your mind what you agree to be true you is different from just the fact that you could reason and it's important now from the next episode I want us to take it one step further and this is what I want you to hold in your mind for now. You can agree about certain truths in God's word, but you might not be walking in it. And you can actually agree with it. Like you can agree you're a new creation. You are a love being in Christ. You are the righteousness of God and not be walking that way. And you could even explain the reasoning behind that. At the moment, you might not even need to give the reasoning behind it. You just know that you are that. But why is it then that you're not walking in it? We're going to look at that on the next one. Catch you then. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst [music] on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
