---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 9)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ajks6u5yWQ
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 9)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Pleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Right? So we've been looking at the mind of man and we're still studying on that. We have seen the foundation of our study. God's purpose. God's purpose is sunship. He wants us to be his child and his hairs walk as that. Then we've seen the road map of God's purpose. This is how the journey goes. This is the pursuit of it. We've also seen how we fulfill God's purpose which is by growth. Right? And we saw that that growth happens on the mind. So that's brought us to this point of studying the mind of man which we said is at the very heart of the fulfillment of God's purpose. I said it this way and I think it's very important. Your life is simply a product of your mind. This is observable truth. This is biblical truth. You could see it yourself. If you think about it, there is nothing you do that you're not doing out of the passage of your mind. So it's whatever is on your mind that you do. And it could be because you were conditioned that way by your background. It's just what is in you and you have not taken that time to have the necessary self introspection to adjust, correct, fix those things that are not right about your mind or that are not right on your mind. Now we have thus far seen that if the mind is the issue where then is the place of our spirit. You know when we say we are growing up spiritually this is our spirit growing. We took our time to see that our spirit is fused with God's spirit. We are one spirit with the lord and we will not be thinking right about our spirit to think our spirit itself is what grows. We should rather think of the growth as what happens on our mind. So this is one difference between the body and the spirit where when we think about the body we can think about the body's growth and then the brain as another aspect. But when we talk about the spirit of man the spirit is this permanent unchanging reality about us. If one is spiritually dead, you don't grow in being spiritually dead. If you have the flesh, you have the flesh. If you're in a state of darkness, you're in a state of darkness. You can grow in your mind in that darkness or in flesh, which is true. Like Paul says, Ephesians 4:22, the old man grows corrupt according to the sit. So the person is worsening, but that's happening again on the mind, which is what he was talking about. So when we are dealing in the talking about the inward man or the spirit of man the growth is not of the nature that we have of the person of our spirit is rather a growth that happens on the mind which is why we want to look at aspects of the mind but before then we want to clarify certain words like the choice of the word use of the word rather spirit and use of the word soul what are they what do they mean at the core and why are they then applied in you know many different ways sometimes in scripture. All right. Now, I think we could remind oursel of who man is wholesomely, right? From 1 Thessalonians 5:23, he said, "May the God of peace sanctify you completely and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless until the day of our Lord Jesus Christ." So, it talks about man as a whole is spirit, soul, and body. If you think about yourself just as your body, you think about yourself only physical and natural terms, you will be missing out on the entirety of your reality. And it will still be playing out in your life. It will still affect you. You are just not aware. So thinking about ourselves, 2 Corinthians 4:16 says there is the outward man and there is the inward man. It goes further in 2 Corinthians 5 and verse one to call the outward man our tent. It says we want to be for that clothed which means he's also calling the outward man our clothes that we want to put on more on that clothes which means we want to have immortality worn on our body. So natural human life is the clo we have in terms of the outward man but we don't want it to be mortal. We want it to be swallowed up of life. We want it to have immortality. But then there is the reality of the inward man. So there's the outward man and there's the woman. When we talk about the new creation we are enjoined in 2 Corinthians 5:16 not to think in terms of the outward man. So we regard no one according to the flesh which is talking about the outward man. Which means in thinking of the new creation, our judgment should not be across natural lines like gender, race and class, we are thinking about inner realities of people. Are they saved or not? Have they put they have faith in Christ Jesus and his work of redemption? Are they light in the Lord or are they darkness? Do they have the life of God or are they still dead? And no matter how refined a man's mind is without the life of God, we must recognize the corruption of self-righteousness and pride that still underwrites everything the person does. That's why at the core of the blessedness of the believer is that humility of needing salvation that Christ provides and only by that doing all that God wants us to do. If there is not that fundamental aspect, the person is not saved. So a man is not blessed except he recognize that he's poor in spirit except recognizes that he's he's mourning. He needs help. He cannot help himself. So the sense in which we are just normal and we just need to align with what is good more is a complete misunderstanding of the truth of our existence. We are not just normal. We are already in bad shape. Something has gone wrong from what is normal. Darkness has happened, death has happened and so on and so forth. I appreciate if people have very good minds like despite the fact that they have not believed the gospel and I I think there is nothing wrong with that. It's not even something the scripture doesn't appreciate. It does. Which is why when it's comparing the sins of certain believers, it's like some unbelievers are not even doing this. Like it's something commendable. Showing their recognition, the recognition of their conscience of what is truth in this world that things of life are right. I can't get into this one time. We'll look at it later when we're talking about morality. So things of life are right. Their conscience knows and things of death are wrong. And so they have their conscience doing that and they are striving to do that. Yet the scriptures is still clear. The fundamental issue is aligning with the work of redemption that has been accomplished in Christ Jesus. We mustn't make light of helping people see the need of redemption. It is just a matter of truth. It might be inconvenient and it is. We would rather wish it was just open-ended and even universalist. But it is not. We must strive to present the truth of the gospel to them. That said, let us proceed with our examination of inward and outward man. Recall that we saw the Lazarus account. Besides that, we saw the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus. The account given by Peter where we are told that after the death of Lazarus and the rich man a their old man dying, they were still active. The inward man was still active and the mind was active in the inward man. Same is true of our lord. We're told that the body was not to see corruption yet the soul went to a and they used the word soul there to describe the inward man. Having seen these two things, we are proceeding to more detail. We are proceeding to see what does the word spirit mean and what does the word soul mean. Is after we see this that we'll start to see different aspects of the mind and what exactly makes for growth, what exactly makes for our work, what allows us to be doers of the world. Because one aspect of the mind makes us hearers, but there is another that makes us doers. And yet is all the same mind. One aspect of the mind deals with the fact that we're enlightened. And yet, it's another aspect of the mind that accounts for walking in the light that we have. One aspect of the mind deal is with memory as we saw in Luke 16 about the rich man. Yet, memory is not necessarily what makes for our work. So, we need to have an old view on these matters. For now, let's resolve what spirit and soul means. I started to introduce that the choice of the word spirit numa in the Greek and rahak I'm not pronouncing it right but of course it's not my language I'm just trying so those two words ordinarily directly ethmologically mean wind or here sometimes might say breath but breath may not be the best word is actually wind or here will be preferable it is the word soul that means breath and I will explain that when we get there so wind or here and the idea of wind or here is an unseen reality that has a seen effect. That's why the word would be used for God, angels, and man. Unseen realities having same effect. Unseen in this context is unseen to the natural and the physical eyes. So, but they are invisible realities having a visible effect. So, let's put that to one side and look at the other side of the equation which is sorry, have I resolved that? Okay. So, invisible realities having invisible effects. Why then is it used for the mind? You remember I was saying that we saw the word spirit of the mind right in Ephesians 4:23 also in first chapter 3 Peter was talking about the edman of the heart I'm going to come back to that the man of the art is not our spirit nature I have to say that even though it goes against it's something one of one of my heroes um said very wonderful teacher of God's word but he still taught the truth of the spirit of man but that word doesn't mean the spirit of man of the earth is not the spirit of man we could still explain the same truth that he explained. But when we get to what Peter was saying, if we miss what Peter was saying, we'll miss a fundamental part of how we walk as we are meant to. Right? Now, when he was making that statement, Peter, he said, "The eating man of the heart that we should put on the incorruptible ornament of a gentle and quiet spirit." So, he's not saying that he should put on a nature per se. He's using spirit in a particular way. And I really cannot get to it yet because it requires some background explanation for me to talk about why is spirit being used for the mind, the spirit of the mind. But he's saying that there's a part of our mind that is directly responsible for what we can visibly see in our work. That part of our mind is what is calling spirit. So when Ephesians 4:23 says you need to be renewed in the spirit of your mind, it is not the informative part of our mind that produces our work. So it is saying beyond being renewed in knowledge or enlightened in knowledge preferably you need to deal with this part of your mind that will produce your work. That's how far it can go for now. We have seen this a bit when we're looking at how to fulfill God's purpose. But we need some background explanation to be able to point out what is this part of the mind that is called or spirit of the mind that directly produces our work. So there's the part of the mind that is just memory. There's the part of the mind that is just consideration, thinking or reasoning. We can let's just call it reasoning. So we reason. There's a part of the mind that is emotions. But he's saying there's a part of the mind that is the invisible reality responsible for the visible things we see in your work. And that is what is called the spirit of the mind. So note that when you see spirit, not every instance will be spirit nature, spirit person, spirit man, inward man. Sometimes it could be spirits being used for a part of the mind by virtue of why the word spirit exists at all which is to talk about invisible realities that have visible effect. Now let's go to the second word which is the word soul. And after we are done with this subsequent episode we'll come back to see the aspects of the mind. The word soul the word suk in the Greek and the word shama I think in the Hebrew it's a word that means breath. So usually it's forceful breath. I don't know if if you felt that. So forceful breathing it can even be like blowing out of your mouth like that idea of breath suk and the the idea of that word is when something can have this kind of forceful breathing or breathing at all it shows the thing is alive the thing is vital. So that word suki has to do with vitality aliveness or another word we can use is animation. Something that is breeding is animated. Now if something is dead is no longer breathing has lost his breath then it cannot have animated actions animated activities. So there is no there's no moving there's no talking there is no roaring there is no there is no jumping because the breath is gone. You can see how the words may interlap because the breath can be called an invisible reality producing visible effect. But the idea with suk is more of the vitality part. The thing has vitality that makes it active. vitality that makes it active that is okay whilst numa spirit is just any invisible reality that has visible effect. Okay, so we have seen a lot on that one. You see a lot of insights where these words interlap but the meanings are sort of different but you can see a lot of similarity amongst them. Now this will lead us to the next thing I want to see the aspects of the mind so that we can rightly address our mind to produce the growth that God wants us to see. So when we say we are spirit, soul and body, we have the spirit part of us. We are actively alive and then we have a natural body as well. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. [music] Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit [music] pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst [music] on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
