---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 3)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RVEbGAXaPSI
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 3)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome back to the Perush podcast, your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. So, we've been looking at how to fulfill God's purpose. We've seen the reality of God's purpose, sunship, which means to be his child and to be his hair, God's child, and God's hair. We've seen the pursuit of his purpose and we saw that as his child, we pursue his purpose by devotional fellowship with him, with God regularly, daily. Then on the other hand, we saw how to fulfill our role as hairs of God with two assignments to carry out. So there is the natural assignment and the spiritual assignment. We saw the journey of that. So how do we pursue that? So there's pursuing our place or there's carrying out our role as children of God. But there's the pursuit for fulfillment of our assignment as of God. We listed out the journey that we go through in our natural assignment and in our spiritual assignment. In each case, we saw five general points about our journey. But now we want to see how do we fulfill God's purpose, right? Which is I use the example like someone is given an instruction to carry two bags of cement each on one hand and walk a 500 m distance without ever dropping any. Now the moment you look at yourself and you look at your capacity, you're like I don't think I can do this but let me go train. Let me go prepare. I could put myself in the place bring myself to the place where I can do it. Right? And then the person eats the gym, gets the training, gets equipped, becomes so strong, has the endurance to be able to bear the weight is about to carry and for the length of time and the distance that is meant to carry it. This is so important because it's not enough that you know what you're meant to do to see the exact terms, the journey, the exact path that you are to take. It's very important that you build capacity to do what you're to do. That you prepare to do what you are called by the Lord to do. Preparation. You recall I I I took us to another text the last episode, Luke 12. The Lord said, "He that knows my will and does not prepare and do according to my will receive a harsher judgment. Will be beaten with many stripes." He describes it that way. That means the person will receive a harsher judgment. Now judgment in scripture is about rewards which is about the gain or the loss of reward. So he's saying this person is going to lose way more in the age or ages to come. You're going to lose way more. You'll be at a disadvantage because the person did not do all he should have done. He did not prepare and do. For the one that did not know like okay if I don't know then I'm fine. Well it says he that did not know yet did things deserving of stripes will be beaten with few. So the person still has losses but is graver for the one who rose and did not prepare. Now that you know God's purpose, how do you fulfill it? Preparation. We got to prepare. That's what we saw. And I said a text that really helps us to see the preparation that we need to fulfill God's purpose. Ephesians chapter 4. We've already been to the text for other reasons before, but we're going there this time around. Talk about preparation for God's purpose. So, Ephesians 5:1. Now I think the last time we were here we had been to Matthew 28 where Jesus said the apostles should make disciples of every nation and we also referenced Luke 6 and verse4 where the Lord said disciplehip is that you perfect people to become as the master. So if the apostles were to make disciples it means they were to perfect the people that they were discipling to become as the master. Now the word he used in that Luke 6:44 perfect there happens to be used again in Ephesians 4 and verse 112 I mean it's used particularly in verse 12 the noun of the word is used in verse 12 so he uses that familiar word now Ephesians 4 is really talking about disciplehip disciplehip Jesus says we are to undergo as believers and is the disciplehip that we receive to fulfill his purpose for our life now let's go into it so Ephesians 4:11 and he himself be He is the Lord Jesus. So he's saying the Lord Jesus gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, and the pastoring teachers. For now, since we're not going into an explorative study of what these words mean, let us just take it for granted and sum it up this way. No matter what you think about the words that Jesus gave the leaders of the church, right? So you might think of it as being different responsibilities. You might think of it as a reality that is fulfilled where one person embodies all those words or all those realities. But in whether whatever view we take is still talking about the leaders of the church for sure. So the Lord gave the leaders of the church. Ephesians 4:11 and verse 12 says for the perfecting of the saint. So he gave them the leaders of the church for the perfecting of the saints unto the work of ministry. The second word for is a different word from the first word for. So when I see the word for the perfecting of the saints, that's the word in the Greek. The first four is pros which means towards the perfection of the saints. But the second one is unto the work of ministry. The word is e i s. That means into or unto or to. So it means when we are perfected as saints, it leads to the work of ministry. That's our spiritual assignment. Then the last one says unto the finite body of Christ, which is just a very orderly logical consequence. When the saints are perfected, they do their assignments. Particularly here is their spiritual assignment and it builds the body of Christ. He would further explain that from verse 13 all the way to 16. We have seen all of these before, so I'm not going to focus on that. What I want us to see is verse 13. He gave them for the perfecting of the saints. Now that word perfecting in the Greek, the language that Paul was writing in is the word katismos. And don't get bored, don't get bored as well with the use of Greek here because this is one word of any Greek word that you need to understand. It's going to be very important to many things we are going to say. So he gave them for the perfecting of the saints is katismos. The word we could just simply say it's from two words. the word kata which is downwards or down the word kata and the other word is atios which is a completion point. One of the places atios was used is 2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 17. Now in verse 16 of 2 Timothy 3 he had said that all scripture is given by the inspiration of god is profitable for doctrine for reproof for correction for instruction and righteousness. So he's saying the scriptures are so useful for all these things. Verse 17 says that the man of God may be perfect or complete and that word there is atios. That the man of God may be perfect or complete atos. So is perfect is complete. This like he's saying this is the end. The man of God reaches the end. The point where he's supposed to get to now. So bring it back here to Ephesians 4:12. He gave them for the perfecting of the saints or the equipping of the saints. We have kata as downwards and the other word atos as perfect or complete. So he gave them for bringing the saints to a completion point to the point where they are complete or perfect to an end point. Let's just put it that way. And when they bring the saints to that point or as they bring the saints to that point, the saints do their assignments particularly is focused on their spiritual assignment. They do the work of ministry and they edify the body of Christ. Right? So why am I saying all of this? Because of verse 13. Verse 13 says, "Till we all come to the unity of the faith." Why I was explaining the word katismos earlier is because when it says stay we all come to it is trying to answer what that katiso or katismos is about. Again katismos means to bring to go downwards to a completion point ka downwards to a completion point a perfection point or an end point. So he's about to show us the end point that the saints are meant to get to so that they can effectively do the assignment. So there's a point that the Lord wants you to arrive at. And this is so important. What this means is that there are two ambitions that should define our life, right? There are two passions, there are two goals we should have. There are two goals we should have. He's talking about a goal of growth that is necessary for the goal of purpose. So to do the work you are meant to do the things that the Lord has called you to do to fulfill the assignment that he has for you. There is the goal of growth. There's a point you want to get to in growth. A precise point you want to arrive at and atos a point where you are just as you should be. You know we're talking about going to the gym. You as fit as you should be to be able to bear the burdens you want to bear. I do hope you get this. So the church is baked with an ambition of bringing you to a particular point and keeping you there ensuring that you maintain that exact level of stature so that you can keep doing what you're meant to do till we all come to there's that goal. Now before we come back to Ephesians 4:13 to see the different description he gives to us about that particular point we are to reach. I want you to see Colossians chapter 1. It also bears the same burden of showing us there's a goal. There's a desired goal of the point we should be in growth you know and it's when we open up this that we see the relevance of everything else that the church does and everything that is taught within the church. Now in Colossians chapter 1 and verse let me start with 24 then I jump to 28. It says now I rejoice this is Paul speaking I rejoice in my sufferings for you and fill up in my flesh what is lacking in the afflictions of Christ for the sake of his body which is the church. I mean if you heard someone say I'm doing something that was not done in the work that Jesus did you might want to feel angry and insulted like ah don't say that Jesus has done everything but Paul says no I'm filling up in my flesh I am suffering to ensure I do something that is lacking in the work of Christ for the sake of his body's church like how dare you what is lacking and he tells us what is lacking is knowledge the knowledge of what he did is lacking the work he did is done he has done already what he has done but the knowledge of what he's done the explanation of it may be lacking and Even though the reality exists of what he has accomplished and the nature that we have thereby without the knowledge of the same it's not useful to you. It's like someone who has an inheritance written to him by his father of so so so worth in resigning let's just use some maybe $1 billion that's already enough money for a lifetime and he's just oblivious of it. He's just unaware for whatever reason. That's a serious problem. If the person is not taught if the person is not made aware let's just say at least this one doesn't require so much of teaching. If the person is not made aware of that, then the person is never going to be able to take advantage of what belongs to him or her. All right? So Paul says, I have to fill up my flesh. What is lacking in the afflictions of Christ? He says is that is for this reason I was making made a minister of the gospel to make known the word of God to you. Now let's jump to verse 28. So he says him talking about Christ we preach warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Look at that. I want to present every man perfect. This is another word there. This is complete deliosia in Christ Jesus. So this sense of an end goal is in the mind of the preacher. There is a point I'm seeing you as the saint. You as the hearer of God's word, you as the audience, I want to ensure you arrive at that point to present you perfect in Christ Jesus. Verse 29 says, to this end I labor striving according to the working of God that works in me mightily. Can you see that? So he says, I don't give up. I keep pressing. And I keep striving to present you to bring you to this point that I desire and that God desires that you should be in. So back to Ephesians chapter 4:13. What exactly is this point that the Lord wants us to be in to fulfill his purpose? How do we fulfill God's purpose? We need to have that training disciplehip perfecting that growth that makes it possible to bear the weight and the burden of what we are called to so that we can fulfill it. What is that exact point that he wants us to get to? Ephesians 4:13. So till we all come to the unity of the faith, the knowledge of the son of God. Right? Then he says the perfect man, the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Four descriptions, four descriptions of the goal that the Lord has for us. He wants us to come to the unity of the faith, the knowledge of the son of God, the perfect man, the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. I don't know if you can see this. He's giving us two categories of description. He wants us to arrive at a point in knowledge, but he's also talking about a point in growth, in stature, a perfect man imbued. That is what we're going to start to explore from the next episode. All right, catch you on that one. &gt;&gt;
