---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 7)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l5CnhKLOWLk
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 7)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Plleos podcast. We give you the daily dose you need of God's word. Maybe not the entire dose, but the part of it for the renewal of your mind and transformation to fulfill God's purpose. We've seen a number of things already, very important things and we are making forward progress today. So presently we are looking at the pursuit of God's purpose. That's on the back of the fact that we should recognize by now that God's purpose is sunship. That is he wants us as his child and his hairs. He made us for that reason. Which means as his child he wants us to walk in fellowship with him and walk in his nature and character. Then as his hairs he wants us to carry out, fulfill, walk in our assignments. So walking with God is walking in fellowship. Walking with God is walking in his nature. Walking with God is walking in his assignments which includes both natural and spiritual assignments that he has for us. Now having said all of that, it builds us to understand how exactly do we fulfill God's purpose. A cardinal central text in this regard as being 1 Corinthians 7:17 where Paul said, "As God has distributed to each one, as God has called each one, so let him walk and so I ordain in all the churches." So whatever the conditions are in which you were called, in which you were saved, in which you received or realized God's purpose for your life, those are the conditions in which you are to begin your walk with God. And in that light for the believer, when you get saved, the natural state you are found in, you ought to regard that state as where God begins to unfold his work in your natural assignment for you so long as it's not sinful. Now, I haven't said that. We saw that from the point of your constraints or or from the point where you start out based on the circumstances you found yourself in, you have the liberty to proceed further to take advantage of opportunities that come to you. Then from taking advantage of opportunities, you also have the privilege, you could also have the privilege of pursuing your own desires. Now this is just a general rule. You might find people that never are bound by circumstances in their pursuit for different reasons. They just maybe start out with opportunities that come their way that they can take real advantage of in carrying out their natural assignments. For other people, you'll find that they just start out with enough resources and capital to use the world to do what they want to do and it's still fine. What matters is we should recognize that what we do in the natural is not we being gods to ourself is rather we being stewards of God. And when we treat our natural work as God's assignment, then we are truly walking in his purpose as we do that part of the work that the Lord has given to us. Now I've emphasized the place of our will, our choice, the free will that we have to decide what we want to do in natural is quite unlike the spiritual. I could also add that there is the possibility for one to have specific instruction and direction concerning one's natural assignment. That's very possible. So again, we're in the realm of exceptions and it means that in the regular course of what you do, the exception will come to you. So you going out to look for exceptions when you have the rule is not the right way to go. Again, just for caveat sake, save the burden is laid on your heart. But if the burden itself is laid on you, that is the exception coming to you. So let us not do things without Bible intelligence. The intelligence of God's word is following that template and direction that we have found in God's word and running with it. If an exception is going to come to you, it will come to you of its own accord. You are walking with God in the conditions he found you, in the conditions you realize his purpose. Dust yourself. Start out. Get into fellowship and prayer. Get your heart in sync with him in doing his will and purpose. Start doing your natural assignments. Start moving. Understand that you are serving. Understand what is required of you. So there's a major point I probably not made. Oh, there are two points. There was one I said I'll make earlier. So I made the second one first and I'll go back to the one I said I'll make earlier. That was like two episode ago. I'm correct. So when you find yourself doing anything, what counts the rule of your pursuit in natural assignments is maximum productivity. That's the core teaching of the apostles relative to our attitude to our natural assignment. It is concerning and sad today that I don't think it is taught enough. I think more times people are being taught just the aspiration of success, the desire of you know accomplishment and greatness whatever it means usually defined from this comparative sense of people maybe being great and better than you versus that. These are not healthy ways of thinking about our natural assignment of success and of greatness. We should rather think about it as success will be doing what God wants you to do, right? Um fulfilling what God wants you to fulfill and greatness will be the same thing which is fully maximally accomplishing what he wants you to do. And then in that sense you have that sense of satisfaction. Even if your natural estate comparatively in the minds of people is small or is little is insignificant to them, you shouldn't feel that way. You know this is what the Lord gave you and you have done it well. You feel that sense of significance, faithfulness, greatness in your part of the Lord's work. Now again, what they taught emphatically, loudly, unapologetically was maximum productivity. We saw that already when we looked at Colossians 3:22 to Colossians 4:1, then Ephesians 6:5-9. Maximum productivity is what taught to us about our work. I could also quote 1 Timothy 6. I've not been going to the text because the text is speaking to employers as well employees rather they also spoke to employers all right um and instructing them particularly when they are serving believers to know that they are helping those who are with faith and he had the mind of which he also helps the faith and the mission of the church as well so but what they consistently taught is maximum productivity okay let's just go through it anyways um I know it's slowing me down on spiritual assignment but when we get to spiritual assignment we also take our time to understand that. Let's see 1 Timothy chapter 6. He said in verse one, let as many born servants as are under the yoke. So these are conditions that are quite different from ours. Might not exactly the same, but we can understand the way the type that it is today, but with much more respect for people's rights. I'll talk about the morality of this some other time when we get to morality as a study, but that'll be further down the line in the podcast. So it's something that is going to come up where we see the truth of morality now and why the Bible has this sort of tension where what people were practicing at a given time can sometimes seem in tension with what is foundational truth about morality. But in 1 Pet 6 and 1, it says, "Let as many bond servants as are under the yoke, count their own masters worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and his doctrine are not blasphemed. And those who have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brethren, but rather serve them because those who are benefited are believers and beloved." Why? Does he want them to be well benefited? I he definitely has the faith in mind and the mission etc. in mind. So dash but he also warns the the masters and the wealthy about their heart not being proud not being obsessed with natural and material things is essentially teaching a heart of stewardship even in our natural assignments. Very important but let's just leave that because of our time and it's not our focus here. Let's see 6 then maybe we'll see Colossians 3. So maximum productivity is how you pursue your natural assignment. So the rule is start from where you are take advantage of opportunities. Do what you desire. Those are the three basic things. Then as you do that, be led by the spirits. That gives us like four points, right? So let's add one more point which is the final and capping point. Engage with maximum productivity. So the posit of a natural assignment again will go number one start where you are. Number two, take advantage of opportunities. Number three, do what you like when you can afford to. Right? Number four, you can and you should engage the leading of the spirit. Why I say that the way I say it is because it should already be part of your life. like your devotional life, your fellowship. If you have to feel the burden to do that, then maybe there's something Lord wants to tell you and you should go ahead and find out. It could just be you feeling that way. It could be the Lord wants to tell you something. But as long as you are, you should be open. Maybe that's the word I should use. You should constantly be open to the spirit in your regular life. You know, even as you engage your natural assignment, it's very very important. You should be open. You shouldn't be shut out. I'll just do what I want to do. That can never be the right spirit. So you do as you are guided by God's word, but you are always open to the spirit. Say even in our spiritual assignment, let's say Acts 16, we're looking at that the last episode. They were just shut out and they were hard-hearted and stubborn in their pursuit of God's purpose for their lives, completely uninterested in what the spirit of God is saying to them part time. They definitely will not have done what God wanted them to do there in Acts chapter 16. So I think we should say number four, be open to the leading of the spirit always even in your natural assignment. But number five is engage with maximum productivity. Ephesians 6:5 says, "Born servants, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling in sincerity as to Christ, not with eye service as men pleasers, but as born servant of Christ, doing the will of God from the very important in a material where he had repeatedly and emphatically taught the will of God, God's purpose as sunship, you being hairs." He says this is part of that. This is the will of God. Doing the will of God from the heart. That word from the heart actually is like out of the soul which means you have you have grown and matured. We're going to come to this after looking at positive of God's purpose. I don't know when we'll finish that but that will lead us to the next thing that affects your fulfillment of God's purpose. So this is what you do to pursue but we're going to be looking at what determines your fulfillment of God's purpose after that and it's very important. So it says do this out of your heart out of your soul with good will doing service as to the Lord and not to men. very clear your entire mindset how you have trained yourself what you have grown to you have transformed your mind renewed your mind and transformed your life to see things that way is what I'm doing here is to the lord this is the lord's work I doing I just hope like you get it like how important it is you know I know there might be the sense of oh I'm kind of biased to natural assignment side because everybody knows the spiritual assignment is the law's work there's no debate about the work of ministry being the law's work if it's not you will not do it if the lord didn't give It was it was not it wouldn't have crossed your mind but then your survival would have made you engage in natural assignment. Your greed will make you engage in natural assignment but there's an entire change of mind that is expected to happen when it comes to your natural assignment. It deserves the emphasis that I am making. Right? So verse seven, with good will doing service to the Lord and not to men, knowing that whatever good anyone does, we receive the same from the Lord whether or free. Seems like this would take my time in this episode, Colossians chapter 3, but I'll try to circle back to our spiritual assignment. And I think with this, we should be able to focus on that subsequent episode reasonably. Colossians 3:22, he says, "Born servants obeying all things your masters according to the flesh, not with high service as men pleased." Notice the core teaching there is how you carry out your work, how you obey them, your honor for them, your regard for them. But the core issue is it is to the Lord. It's the Lord's work. Not with service is like I want to fully do what he wants me to do. Not I don't want to I don't want to do everything because look at the kind of attitude we find people have. And I would I must be honest that there are times you find Christians have that attitude. In my own culture in Euroba they will say which means the boss sells. The boss doesn't sell. Your employer sells. Your employer doesn't sell. Your company sells. Your company doesn't sell. You the burden bearer, the salary earner, your money must be given to you. That is not the Christian attitude. Even though it's still true, they'll pay your you get your pay, but that's not the Christian attitude. It is not the Christian attitude. The Christian attitude is I have to be faithful to do the work of the Lord. I must preop it as I'm doing what he has given me now. It might unfold to something else later. But every time I'm serving him, I serve him faithfully. I serving faithfully. They are serving him faithfully. I'm just serving him faithfully in all that I do. Don't do it with service as members, but in sincerity about fearing God. That means genuinely, you actually doing the work rightly. And whatever you do, do it heartily as unto the Lord. That word actually is the same thing out of the heart, out of the soul as to the Lord and not to men. That means you know it on the inside. You have your mind has been so renewed to know this is for the Lord. Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance, the remmaneration of the inheritance. For you serve the Lord Christ. He who does wrong will be repaid for what he has done whether good or bad. And he wants the masters as well to do what is just and fair. Okay. Productivity is not told to the masters because it's their business. They are expected to be productive naturally. So fairness and justice in how they treat people is emphasized. But we are all told to have maximum productivity. So don't forget the five things that make our pursuit of our natural assignment. I'll catch you on the next one. We'll talk more on that. Bye. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, [music] visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your [music] questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, [music] don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. For [music] now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
