---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 3)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KHwCK5qgA00
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 3)

You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, welcome to the Plleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We're looking at the mind of man. It's such an important teaching and it's taken us a while to get into it because there's a lot to see. But we've already seen a couple of things. Let me recap. Let me recall some of things we have seen. Of course, we should just remind ourselves we have seen what God's purpose is, which is sunship. We are called to be children of God and of God. We have assignments to carry out. We have seen the journey of of that assignment of that purpose right that the journey of God's purpose involves a daily life of devotion an unfolding natural assignment as well as a um process of and also an unfolding spiritual assignment. Um but we said that seeing the journey of God's purpose, seeing the road map which I call the pursuit then I think I'd have preferred to call it the road map. Now but seeing the road map of God's purpose does not substitute does not is not equal to having what it takes to fulfill it. Which is why after that we studied how to fill God's purpose where we're looking at growth, right? Um and we saw the need for disciplehip, for perfecting, for growth, for knowledge, for stature to be able to bear the burden of purpose to fill it. And something that became clear as we examined that um was um um the role of the mind in this entire journey. So it became very clear that there is a very important place and a very important role that our mind plays in the walk in God's purpose. I could put it this way like your mind is your life. It's just that simple. And let me say some things that I think are so important. We sometimes underestimate how how much our mind have been conditioned by what it it has been exposed to. Like we sometime underestimate the way our background can force our minds to reproduce the life it was exposed to. Oh, I don't know if you got that. We sometimes underestimate how much our how much our background sorry can force our mind to reproduce the life that it was exposed to. One day we might get the chance to talk about that because at the core when we speak about generational curses, generational patterns, if there's anything that is truly that it will be this where the same strongholds on the on the minds of other people that condition us in our background. um in our early days you know are now reproduced on the mind of those of us who reproduce on the mind of their children or whoever released with them and it becomes a replica a replicated pattern it keeps happening so we might underestimate how strong the influence of our background is how strong the condition of our background is in defining us now usually when we do this we can over underestimate it and just say yeah I'm a new creation I'm not like that. Rather than having some real introspection like when Paul says Ephesians 4:17, see then that you no longer walk. It means I used to walk in a particular kind of mind and I need to sit down and look at what are the tendencies of my mind based on my background. You could have hate, you could have bitterness, you could have anger, you could have ashness, you know. I mean there are good things you could also have had from your background. I mean you could have love and discipline which are good things but you could have harshness which you could cover up and say well I am just disciplined so yeah that's just what it is. Uh because we sometimes like to be very critical of other or we sometimes tend to maybe not like to tend to be more critical of others than we are of ourselves which is not the disposition of scripture. The Lord told us that we as individuals need honest self introspection before you know trying to cross-examine others. He said that Mark 7 where it spoke about take paying attention to the log in your own eyes before the speck in other people that is using the same energy that you would use in judging others on yourself. It's something to take serious. It's not it wasn't just a backhand response to hypocrisy is really an instruction. You need to examine yourself. You need to have honest self introspection. What is the state and the conditioning of my mind? What are the things that I need to correct? Your mind is your life. And the day you realize your mind is your life and you say, "Okay, what life do I want? Is that life my mind?" Then it might just be that then you're just waking up. Now, of course, here I'm not giving you even though it's true like as a matter of principle. I'm not saying it from the general standpoint. That may ordinarily be motivational. When I say what life do you want and you walk that back to your mind, I'm saying that your the life you should want is the life of God's purpose. Now that means you're supposed to be a person walking in love, walking in righteousness. If you look at your your life now and it doesn't reflect that life, then it means something on your mind is wrong. And there's no point beating yourself up over it. That's true of every one of us. Like we all have where we're wrong and we need to fix it. So rather than beating yourself, you'll be one step ahead of others if you have been able to identify exactly where you are wrong on your mind rather than simply waving it off. Right? Or probably because I grew up in an household that was like this then such and such have been the state of my mind. Probably because I went to places like this. I don't want to get into details. There are particular situations and conditions if people go through. You could readily expect certain things from them. And it's not always the case for everyone. But usually the conditioning could tends to be like that as a matter of pattern. So you would have to address those things with the word, right? But let's get back into our teaching. Ephesians 4:17, it says the reason why the gentiles walk the way we should no longer walk is because of the fertility of our mind. Which means the reason why we were walking that way is because of the state of our mind as well. You recall in the earlier episode we saw Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 1 to3 telling us that we also when we were dead in trespasses and sins were walking in the desire of the flesh our nature but also in the desire of the mind implying that that nature and the world had affected our mind. Our mind is so important so important to our life. Now at this point as well I can imagine you would think well I just want to talk about the mind and probably you know some of the details of what is going to be said and you're likely to be correct to some degree but not entirely so because you'll find that the mind is this complex place with different things going on and the information in scripture we're expected to construct into a whole about what the mind entails so so that we can address the mind, fix it, arrange it, put some things off and put some things on to live out the life of purpose that God has called us to. So today we will try to wrap up looking at Ephesians 4 from 17 all the way through to 24. And then after that we would make further progress in opening up the dynamic aspects of our mind, different parts of our mind. Now he says we shouldn't walk in the fertility of our mind having our understanding that I hope you recall that in like maybe two episodes ago we saw out of the five descriptions that he Paul uses here to explain why we used to walk the way we do and why the unbelieving world works the way they do. Part of the out of the five descriptions four of them speak to the mind only one to our nature. Right? So he said they walking in the futility of their mind. That's about the mind. Clearly having their understanding that can understanding again is about the mind. They areated from the life of God. That's nature. Because of the ignorance that is in them. You could already tell that mind then because of the blindness of their heart. Now that's the first thing I want you to note that he's emphatically saying these guys work the way they do because of their nature but really because of their mind. Their work is really a product of their mind. is just that their mind is bound to be more tuned in to the world because of their nature. Right? So, and you shouldn't be like that. You have a new nature and in that light your mind should now be tuned into your own nature. But because you used to have this same old mind, you have a lot of work to do. Okay? And again probably this where we should talk about salvation and disciplehip be because we see people who are quick to lambast the faith of Christ for the imperfections of its adarren and believers and oh yeah that guy calls himself a Christian and yeah I look at the face of Christianity today and so on and so forth like shouldn't we be grateful for what Christ has done just because some people are not yet altogether in their growth. Should we stay under the terror I mean tyrannical reign of sin, death and darkness, suffering is consequence without help just because we are unhappy that some people are yet to match up in their conduct, morality, character makes no sense. Makes no sense. We should have a disposition where we are able to be wholesome in complaining about those who need to grow without speaking unduly down on the very important sacrifice that the Lord had to make. There was no other way to save us from sin and death than what Christ did. That at its core is Christianity. Notwithstanding the fact that people need to grow, we must not be found making light of the allimp important work of Lord to save us independent of our conduct though it should affect our conduct subsequently. We need the salvation first then we can talk about disciplehip. So we can say man the state of growth, development, disciplehip and of course you could go to different communities and you see different degrees of disciplehip. Some people are so scared of demons in certain places because their disciplehip has not strengthened their faith in the authority of the believer. Some people are completely oblivious to the assignments that they have in one regard or the other because their disciplehip has not accounted for that. Some people are, are, you know, we could go on and on. There are people who care very less about the supernatural because their disciplehip has been um tilted to one side or the other and on and on like that. We need awesome disciplehip we do and that's the work that the church seeks to um fulfill to disciple us and it's a work that addresses our mind. All right, our mind. It's really not good to have an awesome disciplehip. One area that you are lagging in may become very important for you later. May become important. You might not know about it. So you would live without the benefits that you could have had. But it's good to be well harmed, to be wholesome, you know. Put on the armor like be thoroughly um furnished. So be well um ready for all that life may throw at you. Now, so our mind is that place that requires this addressing, very serious addressing. And I want us to proceed to Ephesians 4 in verse 20. It says, "You have not so learned Christ." Okay. So again, when he switches from talking about the unbel unbelievers in the gospel of Jesus to talking about those of us who have believed in Christ Jesus, he's still addressing the mind. Right? You have not so learned. Learning is a matter of the mind. The disciplehip is a matter of the mind. You have also learned Christ if indeed you have heard him again your mind and have been taught by him again your mind as the truth is in Jesus which ought to be on your mind. Okay. I wanted to point out something and I I just jumped that aside the fact that the word mind was used four times in Ephesians 4:17-19. In fact in verse 19 he started talking about the emotions of the mind they are past feeling. That means people can walk so much in the flesh that they no longer have any their conscience no longer recognizes a wrong in it. They are past feeling. I don't want us to go into that. So it gets to talking about the emotion on the state of the conscience of the mind is something we'll come to later. All right. He said because they are that way they have given themselves over. So it's no longer a matter of struggle for them. It is now their state of residence. They are just that way. Giving themsel over to lessness cleanliness with greatness. The other point I wanted you to notice in Ephesians 4:17 to9 is those four descriptions of the mind were negative descriptions. Let me explain. He's saying something that should be there is not there. Right? It says the futility of their mind. That word fertility mote is empty. It means something should be there but it's not there. But we all know nobody's mind is empty. Everybody has something on their mind. So what is empty on their mind is a specific thing. We could say a specific knowledge, a specific truth and the implications of that knowledge. Look at the other one. It says the understanding is darkened. Darkness is not an original state. Is the absence of light. So of course it's pointing out something should be there. It's absence. Absent. And that's why we are seeing a darkened understanding. The other one says the ignorance that is in them. Again, something they should know. The other one says the blindness of their heart. Something they should be seeing but they are not seeing because their hearts are blinded. So by the time he switches over to talking about those of us who believe in Jesus, you have not so learned Christ. So he's pointing to the thing that is on our mind. You could call it Christ. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, you could call it the truth. But very much um specifically he's saying that you put up concerning your former conversation, the old man. So what is pointing to that is not on the mind is a particular reality, the reality of the new creation. This something we'll come back to later, but for now we are making progress. I'll see you on the next episode where we talk further about the mind from where we are stopping now. Thank you. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
