---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 5)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XDzEpEKF25c
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 5)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Pllearos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. We've been looking at the mind of man of recent and thus far we just have to remind us what God's purpose is. Sunship God's child and God says I hope it's not cliche so that we are not walking in it. uh I trust that you're walking in it walking daily in fellowship with our father literally all the time in fellowship with our father and walking in his nature and character but in that same light pursuing the assignment he has given to us our natural assignment and spiritual assignment don't forget we have seen the road map of that purpose the pursuit of his purpose the road map of the same how it unfolds for our natural assignment and how it unfolds for our spiritual assignment I think at the core of the road map is at the end of the day whatever you're doing and wherever you are there is the need for maximum productivity. You need to be maximally productive. You need to give it all. You need to spend all of the time that is required for each assignment fully maximally productively. Don't just let the time pass you by. Don't just be found marking presence and just seemingly active but not doing the real thing. Please, you got to be maximally productive. There is nothing more important than that. I say this because a lot of times we find in God's word, I mean the primary description of many things in God's word is like a seed. If you are not attending to what you're meant to do, everything else that is within what the Lord wants you to do will not be seen. We're not even talking about your personal desires. And this is God's assignment. Of course, he does expect for your natural assignment that you can freely of your own choice desire a level of comfort and all. You have the absolute freedom to desire whatever you want to desire. It is your right and you also have the right not to desire. Some people can look at the demands of certain things in the natural and like I'm not really interested. I don't think it's worth it. You also have the choice but you do not have the choice to be maximally productive. If you are not going to set your ambitions so high in terms of what you want to pursue that wherever you still find yourself, you have to be entirely faithful in doing what you're doing as given to you by the Lord. When you do that, invariably that is what success is. You're successful. Now, I do expect as well, even though there might be exceptions, that if you are truly faithful, you're going to make progress. There is nothing that encourages not making progress in life, in anything that we do. If we are maximum productive product this something that the proverb says he was making a comparison between the wise and the foolish and he was talking about the destructive end of the foolish even if they seem to have some success or results but it says the part of the just which was really about wisdom if you read the text because wisdom is to know the truth which helps you to know what is right and what is just. So he said the part of just is like a shining light that shines brighter and brighter onto the perfect day. It means you keep walking more and more in light. You keep mocking more and more in the life of God and you keep making progress. That's what's expected. Doesn't mean there can't be issues set back. We can't judge by your count balance. Different things could happen. So that might not be the issue. But you are always moving forward. You're always doing more. You're always faithful to the Lord. Now having said all of that, I'm going back to my focus here, which is we need to grow. Even when we have the road map of purpose, we need to know how we fulfill it, which is by growth. And that growth happens in our mind. We took quite some time in the last episode to clarify that our spirits cannot be improved on. Your spirit is in a complete perfect and divine state. Remember Colossians 2:9 and 10? You are complete in Christ. So your spirit is in a complete perfect and divine state. Do you remember second Peter 1:4? You are now a partaker of divine nature. You have in common the divine nature. So you have the divine nature in common with God. You have to recognize. You have to recognize, you have to appreciate privilege that you have by God that your spirit already is just like his spirit. You are one spirit with the Lord. We've seen other texts in that regard like 1 Corinthians 6:17. It that is gentle Lord is one spirit within Romans 8:15 and 16 where we have received the spirit of sunship and the spirit of sunship as well as our spirit have the same witness because they are fused as one. With all of that said and sorted, then I think our focus presently should be on the mind. If our spirit is the same, you're listening to me, your spirit is the same as mine because we've believed on Jesus. All of us believers are gathered in a building, our spirit is the same. What makes for different results, outcome in our world. Why do we have some believers walking in a particular way and some other believers walking in a different way? This really is concern that should be on the heart of each and every one of us. like he's telling me he wants me to come to the measure of the statue of the fullness of Christ. Like really, I'm supposed to walk just like Jesus. And the answer is yes. Then even worse, you know, or even more seriously, I should probably say is my spirit is just like Christ. And now the only reason why there may be any difference is the state of my mind. Wow. So what exactly is it about my mind that needs addressing? If my mind is where the issue is. Now before we go on, I want us to see another text today. I want us to see 2 Corinthians chapter 4. I know I've shown us this text in some earlier episodes, but I want to drive it in a bit more. Do you remember we saw 1 Thessalonians 5 and 23, maybe the last episode? And he says our whole spiritual and body. So holistically, he says we are spirit, soul, and body. That's the way he describes us. Holistically, he says we are spiritual and body. But look at 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 16. 2 Corinthians 4:16 says, "Therefore, we do not lose heart. Even though our outward man is perishing, yet our inward man is being renewed thereby." So part of the revelation of faith of Jesus Christ after our faith in God, the seeing the need for salvation and we believe it is that man is a spirit. It's a revelation we accept of ourselves in the truth of Christ. But it's a revelation we could also defend to some degree rationally. In fact, you find that defense that the scripture gives of us having a spirit rationally even though it's a revelation is similar in many other philosophies because there's some good observation and reason to that as many other things. Sometimes for those of us who are charismatic and believe in supernatural I mean you'd have had so many experiences that it's stressful making rational cases sometimes because it's no-brainer but still important that we do what the word itself does. The general rule is we have this physical part of us and we in fact see evidence that every we think rationally and relative to the physical world a whole lot and that's not unique to us. Other creatures animals do you try to kill an ant or anything maybe a spider or a cockroach they are very much aware trying to kill them and they are trying to escape. In fact the very little ant you touch it is trying to run out of the way. That means there's some intelligence going on there naturally, physically. He's thinking in the natural physical space. But it's only with man that we uniquely find metaphysical reasoning. So with man, we find rational reasoning. Sorry. Yeah. With every other um what's it called? Intelligent form of life. Animals find natural reasoning. But we have no definitive or clear evidence. We always have people that will bring up like some form of conjecture like ah yeah the whales were doing this or the elephants were doing that or these animals were doing this when one of them died and yeah that shows that they are thinking beyond the natural. Honestly none of those things are proof of metaphysical thought. It can be proof of dependency based on emotions created in their bonding naturally over time. But there's no concrete proof of metaphysical reasoning without the kind of complex language that humans have the privilege of. So the proof of the metaphysical nature of man is that when we have language we didn't just use our language for natural reasoning. It so happened that part of our consideration and a very serious and fundamental part of our consideration is philosophical in this sense. Everything is philosophical but is metaphysical. Let me say so is metaphysical. We are thinking beyond the physical. We're asking the questions that go beyond the physical. Why are we here? How did all these natural things come to play? And we have other issues I could bring up. Quailia consciousness. Why is it that we are like this? Why is that going on? So metaphysical reasoning is pointer to metaphysical reality as much as physical reasoning is pointer to physical reality. With every physical entity, we see physical reasoning. And when we start to see metaphysical reasoning, it's likely point out to metaphysical reality. Let's leave that. Let's just go back to revelation of the revelation of scripture. 2 Corinthians 4:16. Therefore, we do not lose heart. Even though our outward man is perishing, yet our inward man is being renewed day by day. So, he talks about the outward man and the inward man. This is fundamental. Remember it says, "And may your whole spiritual and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of Lords." 1 Corinthians 5 and 23. But now in 2 Corinthians 5 4 and 16 is describing man as having this dual reality. There's the outward man and there is the inward man. Beautiful. one is perishing, the other one is being renewed day by day. You could say he's being renewed second by second. He's simply saying the other one is not aging, is not perishing, is not getting corrupted, is staying unchanging. And further down in his discussion like three verses later, which happens to be 2 Corinthians 5 and 1, he says, "We know that in our earthly house, this tent is destroyed. We have a building from God, a house not made with eternal in the heavens." He calls that outward man a tent. Wow. So there is the inward man dwelling in the outward man and he's making the point that the inward man is the big deal. Is the real deal. Now we mustn't take that to an extreme where really what God really wants is our spirits. This is something that is very common with certain erases that have since been condemned by orthodox churches for years. I think particularly we are standing in such cases we see agnostic tendencies but he's saying that the core of our humanity is spiritual notwithstanding that the whole of our humanity is spiritual and physical spiritual and natural spiritual and material. We must be awesome. The whole of our humanity is spiritual and natural. But the core of our humanity is spiritual. And that's why he says or he calls this outward man a tent. He describes as a cloth that we are putting on and saying that the core part of us is this inward man our spirit for the believer do not forget that the spirit has been entirely changed. This distinction between the outward man and inward man plays into what you find Paul say in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and 16:17 where he talks about the new creation. It's also very important that when we talk about the new creation, you don't start to wonder what is really new about me. Like I got saved, I didn't notice any change in my body, even my mind. The same tendencies it had are still present save for the power of repentance in it because I believe the gospel. So what has changed about me? Well, what has changed is your inward man. Your spirit is entirely changed. Oh, there's so much to see. But we we must be careful of the word inward man itself because there are instances where the word inward man is not talking about our spirit where the word hidden man may not be our spirit and we are going to get to that soon. For now I'll probably have to wrap up around 2 Corinthians 5. I've established our spirit cannot be improved on. I've established we can think of man as a dual reality. So 2 Corinthians 5 says we don't regard anyone after the flesh. Even though we have known Christ after the flesh we know him thus no longer. So we are not defining people by their outward man. We rather think of people based on their inward man. Are they old on you? Now I'm going to leave us with this. If he's saying that there is an outward man and inward man, it means that they are like parallels. So for now I'll make a statement I will defend later which is the way you have the outward man that is a body with a brain is the way you have the inward man that is a spirit with a mind. The way you have the outward man that is a body with a brain is the way you have the inward man that is a spirit with a mind. This is so important to the Christian walk to spiritual growth to appreciating how we are meant to walk in and fulfill God's purpose for our lives. For now, fulfill God's purpose. Catch you on the next one. one. &gt;&gt;
