---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 8)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5cRX-aA6RvE
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 8)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, brothers and sisters, welcome to another episode of the player roles podcast and this is your daily dose of God's word, renewing your mind, transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. So, we're presently looking at the pursuit of God's purpose. We have seen that God's purpose is sunship, which means to be his child and to be his hair. We have seen that as his child, we are meant to walk in fellowship with him in his nature and character. Then as is head, we're meant to carry out our assignments which includes our natural assignment and very importantly and very critically our spiritual assignments. Now with all of that background laid presently like we said we're looking at the pursuit of that purpose. Now that I know what do I do? What are the steps to take? What's the next step to take? And the rule on the pursuit of our assignments we said can well be seen from 1 Corinthians 7 and:e1 17 where Paul says that as God has distributed or parted to each one as God has called each one so let him walk. So everybody finds themselves in these unique situations or conditions or circumstances that he finds from where they receive God's purpose from where they are saved from where they realize that there is God's will for their lives and from there they begin their walk with God. So he says right from that situation you find yourself in or that any other person finds themselves in at the point of salvation or recognition of God's will. They should start walking with God from then. That's the first and major point which means post rule in walking on God's purpose is start where you are. And I particularly zoomed in on our natural assignment first. How do I pursue my natural assignment? And we arrived at the conclusion in the last episode that there are five things to do in pursuit of my natural assignment. Number one, start where you are. Number two, take advantage of opportunities that come to you. Number three, pursue your own desires. Number four, always be open to the leading of the spirit. So very important rule as a believer is a general rule in God's word and not want to be ignored. The fact that we pray means we are always opening of the spirit. You know every day you are praying about God's will for your life. You should every day. So in that way you would be open to Lord spirit. If there's something the Lord wants to say, you start to feel the burden on your heart. If the reason that you are living in the green light, you keep on walk walking as you're doing. There are times you might be the one yourself that just has a question like you want to inquire Lord Lord you know this maybe maybe you're just concerned from things you are seeing or you have another desire or something you know anything could make you want to ask questions then you should you should always be able to lead us through that's number four. Number five is engage your natural assignment with maximum productivity. I'll take it again the five things in the pursuit of our natural assignment. Start where you are. Number two, take advantage of opportunities that come to you. Number three, do what you desire. Number four, be open to the lean of the spirit. And number five, engage with maximum productivity. The Lord is going to judge your engagement in your material assignment, natural assignment, whether you have done and executed, participated in it with maximum productivity, whether you did it fully for if you're doing it for the Lord and you were deliberately lax when you should have been diligent, something is wrong. I mean the nature of work today. There there's a room for taking a breather here and there. So 5 minutes here, 10 minutes here. I mean there are times you you have to just focus and do some serious work. There are times you have more liberty because you're on the go. Different things like that. But you would know whether you are giving it your best or preferably I'll just say whether you are maximally productive. You need to be productive and that's so key. Having said that, I move on to the next point in our examination which is our spiritual assignment. I feel a lot of concern when it comes to our spiritual assignment because it's often neglected and you can clearly tell that this neglig is really a product of people walking in the flesh. They are weak in their strength to do their spiritual assignment. We can be such wired for our natural assignment so long that at the instance of the recognition of our spiritual assignment, we feel weak. And I think this is there are many reasons the church has a fault in that. But I think if there's anything that is the strength of our spiritual assignment is the burning for souls is the recognition of the problem. Is the realization of why you yourself had to be saved. Why you had to receive redemption and salvation in Christ Jesus. If that doesn't mean something to you, I don't think talked to me about ministry at the time where I already felt the burden for souls. But the time when once you are saved, you're like, man, I'm saved now. And if it means anything, it means something is wrong here. I can't just be the only one that has this privilege. Otherwise, these other people are in not in a not so good state. So if salvation, redemption means anything to you. You ought to place the burden and zeal for others on your heart. Um but well, we are talking about the process of our spiritual assignments. I don't want to I don't want to conflate what we want to see afterwards, which is how we fulfill our assignments. So this is what to do. We have seen what our assignments are. We are seeing how we the steps we take what to do. Then we look at particularly like how we fulfilled the things that affect the reason why even with the recognition of God's purpose and what to do some will some do better some don't and what it is and what we should do about that what do you do when you have your spiritual assignment I said a rule that applies to our natural assignment also applies here you start where you are so 1 Corinthians 10 was a very general rule like I said it was even talking about walking with God whatever condition you have found yourself in in marriage Then he showed us that that rule applies beyond marriage that whatever condition you find yourself in in your cultural status your religious status identity status religious identity status I be precise because religious status will be too vague and which was circumcision was a kind of like a religious identity status and it's quite a big issue as it was in in his time so but then he says that doesn't count we're just talking about doing the commandment of God having faith in walking in love carrying out his assignment You shouldn't be bogged down by by those. Focus on whatever the conditions you are in. You are circumcised or not. You are this or not. You have faith in Christ. Get on. Get on with your work. Do what you're supposed to do. Stop bothering about things that raise questions about the efficacy of what Christ has done. Because if you're like, I have to be circumcised and you're like, what's the point of Jesus's death if you still need that? Now, then let's just proceed. How do I start a spiritual assignment? We said start where you are. Mark 16 told us in Mark 16 and 15 to just go. He didn't say go. Haven't done this, go with this, go with that. Now, of course, he was talking to the apostles who he told to try until the spirit is given which is not applicable to every person after them because we don't see people turning to receive the spirit afterwards since that was simply an event in fulfillment of times that now makes the baptism of the holy ghost available to everybody. So understanding Mark chapter 16 15 downwards we know that we are meant to start our spiritual assignment right on where we are go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. So you are if you to go into all the world you are starting right from where you are and then you are moving on from there and this is the rule right we know we talking about the rule and the exception if there's an exception is going to come to you remember Paul in act 16 we saw that instance he didn't put himself under the weight and burden of resolving every exception trying to optimize for perfection he simply went with the role that the Lord gave and so right after he finished his followup of the people that he preached to in his first missionary journey Then he was just going to go to the next region like he had been doing throughout the first missionary journey. I'm just going to go to the next region. But then because of course he's working in God's purpose which means fellowship with him with our father with God as the father because he's his child is open to the leading of the spirit. Right? So there is the rule start where you are. And again we see another rule that comes up be open to the leading of the spirit is don't don't do it the other way. Start where you are with God's word. That is the leading of the spirit there. Be open to the leading of the spirit. And be open to the spirit might just be that slight, hey, let's talk about this. That's the Lord telling you, let's talk about this. Then at that point, you're like, ah, for him to say that something is up. Like normally, I go with the word and that should be fine. So then at that point, you have to take a pause, pray, find out what he wants you to like we saw in Acts chapter 16. So you start where you are, but you should be open to the lead of spirit when it comes to your spiritual assignment. But well, this is not the exact arrangement for spiritual assignment. I want us to see because Mark's rendition is doesn't give us like a full picture. Probably we get a better picture with Matthew's accounts. Matthew chapter 28 and verse 18. The Lord was talking to the apostles directly and he says all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore again you see he's talking to them go therefore but by virtue of what he's going to say that instruction to go therefore would come back to us. So he says, "Go therefore and make disciples of of all nations, baptizing them in the name of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you, which would include what I'm telling you right now. Go therefore, teach them to observe us all things have commanded and lo, I'm with you always till the end of the age." So they go there for instruction will come back to us. That's why it's not strange that in Acts chapter 8, people were scattered abroad Judea, Samaria, and they were preaching the word and they were not apostles. The apostles stayed back and they said, you know, people scattered abroad except the apostles. So very clearly we can see that this instruction go therefore applies to us as the secondary audience of Jesus's words. What I want you to notice here as well is go therefore and make disciples. So what will lead these people to also doing their to carrying out their spiritual assignments is that you disciple them by teaching them to observe what I've commanded you. That's what set them sets them on course to do their spiritual assignment as well. So you go there for the apostles the 12 and you make disciples and you do that by teaching them that by getting them saved and then teaching them you know either believes but applies to save. So you do that by getting them saved and then by teaching them to observe all things that I've commanded you and then then they also do the same things. You know it's look at it says teach them to observe. So you teach them they have knowledge and information but it should lead to a to their work to observe what things have commanded you and learn with you always to the end of the age. That would mean what makes another individual carry out their spiritual assignment even their natural assignment as well is disciplehip. Is because you have discipled them by teaching them to observe that they are enabled to do their spiritual assignment. And you might say, "But we didn't talk about that in the natural assignment part of the equation." Well, disciplehip still applies to that, you know, but disciplehip applies more particularly, most particularly, more keenly to our spiritual assignment. Let's say Ephesians 4. Ephesians 4 is simply Paul explaining the great commission because he told us prior to verse 11 in Ephesians 4 that when Jesus ascended honor, he gave gifts to men. And he said the person who ascended first descended into lower part of the earth. Then after he descended he ascended again. So he just said the point where Jesus ascended he had first descended which is his death. So he's saying after the death and resurrection of Jesus he gave this gift which is exactly what Matthew 28 is. The Lord had died been raised from the dead and then he gave that instruction. Ephesians 4:11 says he gave the apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers. We could just for now say he gave the leaders of the church, okay, for what? The last time we told they were giving for disciplehip. That's what Jesus gave them to do. But he says they were given for the perfecting of the saints. I always like to point out that in Luke 6 and verse 40, the Lord Jesus said what happens in disciplehip is perfecting. You could check it out yourself. He said u a disciple cannot be more than his master. But when the disciple is perfectly trained will be as master. And it is the exact word, the verb of the word that we have here in Ephesians 4:12. So Ephesians 4:12 is essentially talking about disciplehip. But notice something. It says they are given for the perfecting of the saints or we could say for the discip of the saints onto the work of ministry. Because the idea of for the work of ministry is not a separate thing that the leaders of the church are to do. Is the effect of what they have done in perfecting the saint. Which means our spiritual assignment, the work of ministry requires in a very important way disciplehip, the perfection of the saints, which then features in how we begin carrying out our spiritual assignments. I have to end there for now, but we're going to continue on the next one. Catch you there. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to [music] your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on [music] our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at [music] Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
