---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 13)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z7WCZe7WyQ0
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 13)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Pleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We are committed to seeing that happen as the Lord helps us. Now, we've been studying the subject matter, the mind of man. And on the premise of things we have seen like what God's purpose is for your life, sunship, he wants you to walk as his child as well as his hair. As his child, he wants you to walk in fellowship with him. He wants you to walk in his nature and character as his hair. He wants you to carry out the assignments he has for you. You know it wants you to carry out your natural assignment as well as your spiritual assignment. I could say it both ways. I deliberately choose to say natural then spiritual since most of most time your day starts carrying out your natural assignments. You spend a lot of time in that but spiritual assignments as we have studied already by function of the worth and weight and value and implication should be treated as priority. Now having said all of that knowing that we have God's purpose to fulfill there's a road map of how we fulfill God's purpose. There's exactly how we are supposed to go. There's the journey. And that's why we often see this word for race used when talking about gospel. You'll see Paul say, "I have fought the good fight." 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 7, I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. So it's a race. It's a word for like a track or a journey, a path where you are running through. I think it's rumors if I remember one of it. So you also see the word race in Hebrews 12 and in verse one it says, "Having a great cloud of witness, let us run with patience the race that is set before us." So there is a path to take but knowing the path to take doesn't take away the fact that you need the strength for the race. Said let us run with endurance to lay aside certain weights and to build ourselves to be able to do what we ought to do. And that means that upon knowing God's purpose and the road map of the same we still need to know how we are built, how we get built, how we get prepared, developed, perfected, discipled to be able to bear the burden of his purpose to fulfill it. Having said all of that, we eventually a conclusion that that place where growth happens is our mind, not our spirit, not our nature. Our nature is 100% like our fathers, like our Lord. We are just as Christ is, as God is. You know, we have one, we are one spirit with the Lord. Our spirit and the spirit of God are fused together. We are partakers of the divine nature. We are new creations. So all of these things speak to our spirit being in a 100% complete perfect divine state. You cannot improve on our spirit. Usually when we say the term going up spiritually we could mistake that for something happening to our spirit and people use illustrations in that regard and not you know they are not trying to it's understandable why they do that but it is yet to not the most accurate way of depicting it. Our spirit is not any less what any other believer's spirit is or even any less what our lord's he is. It's exactly the same. The difference in our work is a matter of our mind. And that's where our attention ought to be on. So I said technology is like saying we are training the human spirit. We should not get mixed up. We should just interpret it as we're talking about the mind. We're talking about training the mind spiritually. And I guess it's because we often attach the mind a whole lot to our body. And that's why I said if we are taking a biblical worldview the best way to think of our of ourselves as human being is spirit with a mind having a body with a brain and brain or mind we can use the word both ways will do a lot of natural stuff that have zero spiritual implication like if you are studying sand or you are studying gas or you are studying anything within the realm of physics, chemistry, biology, you are just studying matter. You are not studying anything that is good or bad. You can talk about the corrupted nature of it which would be a spiritual slant but we are just studying things as they are now but yet our mind doesn't just deal on physical matters you know where we are dealing with science with heart and also extends to commerce but our mind deals inescapably our mind deals with metaphysical matters. It's funny if someone is teaching you physics, chemistry, biology, the person is saying is discussing physical matters but because of how man is that person is unable to separate his metaphysical persuasions from what he's saying about the physical world. It would be a tone underneath. Some people might be able to tone down on it very strongly. But some way somehow is always going to seep out in their thoughts. If they have a complete disregard for any divine correlation between the physical world and and its origin, then they would definitely it's going to come up. It's going to show one way or the other. It's you could try your best to suppress it as much as possible, but somewhere is going to slip out. So, and if they do hold a divine correlation between the physical world and its origin is also going to show. It happens with commerce as well. your ethics is going to show when you are speaking about anything commerce even art is going to seep into it. So we must be aware that whilst we deal with natural and physical things there's really no escaping that as long as we in this world people are communicating metaphysical influence to us. I could just use the word spiritual if you don't want to use metaphysical. So spiritual influence is being communicated to us invariably and you got to be cautious of that because yes it affects your work. Now back to what we are saying. Our nature is already like God's. We are dealing with our mind. So man is spirit with a mind with also body with a brain. We have looked at major text that describe the right of man. 1 Corinians 5. I'm not going back there. 2 Corinthians 4 and:e 16 where inward man outward man. We are now trying to look into the mind like the aspects the details the compartment or part of the mind. And we saw that there are two major words for mind. The word no as well as the word noa. Dinoa is just two words. The word dire and the word no. Often times when dire as a prefix is used the word is through. So it's usually talking about either dire as the process of something going through or as the conclusion of having gone through that process. Now in this case when we see that word you'll see instances where the use of the word is to show the state of your knowing. The concluded state of your knowing right you know sometimes used for imagination. Right? Second Corinthians 10 I think us is for imagination where he talks about imagination. I'm not too sure. I must be honest but we find that the hanoa is sometimes used that way so other times is used as the faculty where reasoning happens as well altogether now what is the mind this mind that we have to our spirit and which is where our spiritual growth goes on what are the aspects to it starting with the first instance where we saw the word mind and the you will see the word mind like danoya in Matthew Mark and Luke where the lord said you should love the lord with all your mind so it means that it should be your persuasion and that's one instance where Danoya should be interpreted that way like you should be what you believe the conclusion of your reasoning you have come to accept the reality of not just a self-extend god but holding him as redeemer because it was referencing Yahweh which is the redeeming God as the self-existent God now if that's the case then you have faith in the redeeming God which in the light of the fulfillment of that redemption in Christ is faith in Christ now the very first instance other than the danoa instance I just referenced you will see the word mind is Luke 24 and verse 45 Luke 24:45 the word no was used there Jesus opened their understanding that you may compare in the scriptures the word understanding no there he was focused on the reasoning part his explanation you know removed the blinds that were was on their reasoning by his explanation he removed the blinds on their reasoning so their reasoning could now say ah this is really what this this is about and it became clear to them. One place where we can see this interplay between no and Danoya I was trying to point out in the last episode is Ephesians 4 and verse 17 right in Ephesians 47 into 18 it says don't walk as those who don't believe the gospel do which is in the fertility of their mind they are walking with a mind who's that doesn't know something you should know which we have studied in earlier episode is the truth in Christ particularly the reality of the new creation so they are walking without the knowledge of the new creation because of course they have not received the gospel So in the fertility of their mind but the next statement now says having their understanding darkened dino. So the concluded state of their mind is without light is opposed to what is truth in Christ which is God made us to be his own to be his child to have his life. They are walking without any regard to who they ought to be which they would have been if they believed the gospel. So he's saying you shouldn't be walking like that because we do find believers who even though they are new in Christ they have no reckoning of the fact that they are new in Christ is not part of what is taught them at all. The truth of the new creation is taught to them as something they do by their efforts to make themselves show themselves to the new creation rather than something they are taught that they are to live out. So he's saying that's not how we should walk. You know we shouldn't walk like that. We should walk as people who have on our minds the reality of the new creation and whose understanding is found with the light of the new creation. And that's why you find that there's that contrast with Ephesians 1:18. In the eyes of your understanding that no again is enlightened. It has become your conclusion. It has become your conviction that you're a new creation. And Ephesians 4 is saying these people don't have that conviction because they have not received the gospel and you shouldn't be like that now that you're a new creation. I hope you get me. I think I'm a bit fast but I'm I'm trying to stuff in some things. I'm also trying to not make our study on the mind of man too long. I want to get to some major conclusions. So how many things have we seen that we have on the mind? We have seen that there's the reasoning part of the mind. We have seen that there's the memory part of the mind. Right? So there's reasoning part, there's the memory part. We have seen that there's the conviction part. And that conviction requires something that we must not ignore. free will which is I must have the will upon examination to agree or disagree with the information I've been exposed to. So my reasoning and the use of my reasoning will offer to my will that decision. It's almost normative that we simply agree with what we see to be true. But it is the act of our will doing that. Right? It's like when the gospel is preached to you and you look at the evidence placed before you like wow this seems to be it. and you believe the gospel then at that point you've made a decision by your will you're saved it's like you said 2+ 2 is not four it's a decision you made I reason through it and it doesn't look like that and so yeah I don't owe that 2 plus 2 is four so the things that are in a conviction aspect of our mind are things that require that our will have has asented to we have agreed to so at this juncture I believe we have seen four things in the mind number one we have seen we reason number two we have seen there's memory number three we have seen There is what our will does to our reasoning that leads to our conviction. Right? These are four things that we have seen about the mind. Now I want us to go to Romans chapter 6 because we can appreciate when Paul is speaking what he's trying to point out has happened to the mind of man at different junctures. In Romans and in chapter 6 he's trying to point out what has happened to the mind of man at different junctures. So in Romans 6 when it says in verse three or do you not know as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have been baptized into his death is choice of saying do you not know is to say that you ought you should have agreed with this I mean I've taught you this so it's something you should have agreed to be clear let me say it this way he's actually saying that they have agreed to it that why are they why are they saying what they are saying because you could deduce that from what Paul is saying in Romans chapter 6 these people have accepted the grace of God in Christ, the redemption Christ has done. Also, they aware of the reality of the new creation, but they are combating the contradiction of sin and they are wondering like okay is does it mean that does it mean that the having the grace of God is continuation in sin? They have not known what to do with the knowledge of redemption and the new creation that they are we know it but it seems contradictory. Do we just glory in the grace of God dealing with our sins and we don't see a change in our conduct? And Paul is pointing out, no, there's a step after knowing. There's a step after conviction on the mind. And again, I thought I'll get to it in this episode, but for sure since we're in Romans 6, I will get to it in the next episode. But it says, he says, you already know, right? And so there's this aspect of your mind that is the next step that accounts for your conduct. So don't you know, it says you know, in fact, verse six, it says knowing this that our old man is crucified with Christ. And the persons he says know in verse six is we verse five. So he's telling the audience, we have been united knowing that our old man is crucified. We we know this guys. You know this. We are aware of this. I've taught you this. We know we died with Christ. We know that Christ dies no more. So we are not under the reign of sin and death and darkness and evil. So we know this realities that ours in Christ. So what is left Paul? And he's going to tell us what is next. There's another part of our mind that produces our results. And it just happens to be the case that it's not our conviction that produces our work. Something that is often missing on our minds. If we don't realize what causes our work, we'll keep struggling with our walk. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst [music] on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_HOG. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
