---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 10)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J8h6p9EDORo
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 10)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Brothers and sisters, welcome again to another episode of the Plleos podcast where we serve you your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. All right. So we are looking at the subject matter of the pursuit of God's purpose because we have already seen what God's purpose is and we've seen that it is sunship which means God wants us to be his child and he wants us to be his ears and as children of God we are to walk in fellowship with him and in his nature and character but then if that's all there is to purpose then we're like yeah I'll just walk with God and then yeah so what's the point? What's supposed to happen? I mean it's nice I walk with God and fellowship with him and his nature and caracular but the reason why you asking the question then what's supposed to happen it's not because you're weird it's not because you are you're wired differently is because that's the ordinary state of reality found with humanity acknowledged by scripture it's not a case of it's not something bad it's in fact something good very necessary that you have that kind of disposition you have something that you're called by God to do and that's where the other reality of sunship comes in which in fact is what makes us sick the son of God cuz the description is not of a male child is of one position for managing that which is another of course it was used um the idea at the time for cultural reasons was usually a responsibility born and trusted to the male child usually the first born as well is why also the description of sunship can be can also use description of firstborn for sunship or for being an look look at the instance we referenced way earlier on in the podcast where we saw in Exodus 4, I believe 22:23, that the Lord said to Moses to tell Pharaoh, "Let my people go." Israel is my son, sorry, my firstborn. Tell Pharaoh to let my people or my son go. So he said, "Is my son my firstborn?" And he said, "Israel." And he was talking about the people. He wasn't talking about Israel, which initially is Jacob. He's talking about the entire seed of Israel. And that's the entire people of Israel includes male, females etc. So and the sun part is there but also the firstborn applies to all of them because the idea there is about being and her which is what is now explained interpreted clarified to us by the apostles in the new testament text. So you could also say not just can you say I am a child of God not just can you say I am a son of God. Not just can you say I am an air of God. You could also say I am God's firstborn because I happen to have his inheritance. Usually the inheritance of the father will pass to the firstborn. It depends on how you want to look at it. You can say in his entirety because he gets the leadership over others. So you can say in his entirety the responsibility of the of the father or the patriarch passes to another person. But there was also quite some explanation in or there was also quite an application in their culture where the person gets a larger share who the father owns whilst simultaneously having leadership over others. But if you have taken the role of the patriarch then you are now the new head of the family. So you are the firstborn. Now in this case I don't want to go down that road so long. The focus here is you are God's head. God is not shy. If there's any firstborn in this sense like head of the people is our lord Jesus right so we are joint years with him we could talk about that in some other place talking about god's purpose and plan you know the place of leadership disciplehip etc but all of us can say in in a sense that we're of god as well as being god's firstborn are not shut out from partaking of the inheritance that he has said all of that we have been looking at the pursuit of our assignments natural and spiritual we've already examined the natural and five things are seen in the pursuit of the natural. Start where you are. 1 Corinthians 7:17 is our major text there all the way to 24 as well as 1 Corinthians 7:29 all the way 32. Start where you are. Take advantage of opportunities that come to you. Pursue that which you desire. Be open to the leader of spirit and be maximally productive. The issue of being maximally productive is something we saw I think even as far back as reality of God's purpose where we saw that our natural work is part of our inheritance. back to base on spiritual assignments. I'm really concerned about us fully exploring understanding and being generally convinced of our spiritual assignment because it is an easily neglectable part. Now I could say it's an easily neglected as a matter of fact that people do neglect it and that would be correct. But I'm saying it as a matter of tendency as well. It's easily neglectible because of now you could it is very unlikely you would not do things in the natural even if you don't regard it as given to you by God. And that's because your survival depends on it. But as spiritual assignment is much different. It's by conviction seeing the value of it and then regarding it out of that value that you are going to commit as you ought to to it to fulfill it. Right? And it's such an the very presence of our Lord Jesus ought to shift our hearts to embracing our spiritual assignment immediately from salvation. That is the realization that even if we're trying to survive this world, we are still doing it under the bondage of sin and death leading only to a damnable end. And now we are saved by the Lord out of that by the work that he did. And it's the privilege of the mission of the church, people preaching the gospel to us that we get saved. I don't think it should not we should not wake up immediately to that fact that this work is serious. This work deserves all the attention that it requires. It deserves the dedication that it requires. It deserves the priority that it requires. Rightly so, wisely so no doubt. But our heart must be in the right state relative to our spiritual assignment. If you are disconnected at heart from what the Lord is doing and what the Lord has given to you to do in your spiritual assignment, you are not serving as a worker together with him. 2 Corinthians 6 and verse one is going to say then it's rather unfortunate you know on I would say three levels like it's rather unfortunate the Lord sacrificed for us to ensure we do our part. You are not doing that. It's rather unfortunate for you that you are disobeying and you're going to be judged for not faithfully carrying out your spiritual assignment as much as you can. And it's rather unfortunate for those who are in your path, who are part of your path or I should say who are in the measure of your path, right? That you are not helping with the truth of the word to come out of darkness woman and to now walk in the light as well. I I I and there are so many things here like there's usually fear for some people like manuh there's usually for some people unfortunately and sadly there's usually shame like oh I'll go and preach the gospel like um maybe they think of themselves so highly like they think it's beneath them I mean that one is sad because it's quite there's something wrong with the mind that sense in that way to think of such a noble tax in that manner whatever it is I hope that as we pour through scriptures on this matter, you find that it's not that difficult and is not something away from you to readily walk in this. You'll find probably that the reason why you feel all this way is the seeds of the enemy that has been swn on your heart in this world to deliberately make you feel that way. Now, so having established that we have a spiritual assignment from texts like Acts 1, you know, that tell us about our lot and part all the way to Ephesians 4 11:16, 1 Corinthians 12, I say we have a part, which means we have a lot and each of us do and we have the grace for that. We have seen all of those things. We said what exactly is are we to do in our spiritual assignment? Now, we've also seen that we are to go, which is which means we are to start from where we are. Went to Mark 16. But then we went to Matthew 28, which also says go therefore and make disciples. But one thing we noticed is when the Lord was giving that instruction to the apostles, he had it in mind that they should disciple people to do also to do what he was telling them as well. He told them go and make disciples of all nations and is going to cause them to observe what I am commanding you which is a lot of things that Lord taught including that very statement he was making as well. Which means the disciplehip process of the church is what produces us to do that spiritual assignment of ministry. It is the disciplehip process of the church that would reproduce us that will be us that will cause us that will bring us to such a place as to do that assignment spiritual assignment or ministry. Now if you recognize that it means as much as we can say your spiritual assignment starts right from where you are that's true the proper order of talking about our spiritual assignment is it starts with the disciplehip from salvation right after you are saved you need to be discipled and that is in the local church. Now you shouldn't we'll get to talking about local judge some other time but you shouldn't put you the first thing to do is being a local judge that is to whatever degree of understanding you have you start there and then when your understanding grows if there be the need to by your understanding align where you are better accept it is fine but not being a local church at all is not healthy for you in any way it's not healthy for the kind of sense of community and relationship the Lord wants you to view when you see things that by your where where you are at heart your own level of understanding rubs off on you wrongly fine that's where you are at you're going to align to where you are at at the moment go and do that you don't need to plunge your head into something you weary about this is a matter for another time but the Bible is very big on conscience and you doing something contrary to where your conscience is at the moment is actually a sin so if your conscience is not aligned with being a local church you have a problem that needs to be corrected is not a good conscience. Now that itself needs to be addressed, which is what I'm talking about. But once you know that you need to be in a local church that you can see that well I'll be saved whatever way let me get in here first and I start to grow. As you grow you may by forever reasons whatsoever they may be aligned this way or that is the reality of our world today. But what is important is you are genuinely interested in following God's purpose in the manner that he expects you to which requires of you receiving the training of the local church is equipping to help you fulfill that purpose. So Ephesians 4:11 will say he gave the leaders of the church to perfect the saints to do ministry. He gave the leaders of the church to perfect the saints to do ministry. He gave the leaders of the church to perfect the saints to do the work of ministry. Okay, you have that spiritual assignment in the very first step is be discipled. Be discipled. The very message you had at salvation, we can say is the very first step of your disciplehip. So that message you can preach to someone else. You might not be as effective in communicating it is fine. You already have something to start with. But the first step is be be discipled. Once you are landed, you are rooted somewhere. You are being discipled. You are on track in carrying out your spiritual assignments. That is the attitude. In fact, your natural assignment should also be born out of that. You not likely walk in a right spirit towards your natural assignment. You could be diligent, you know, you could be very hardworking. You could be very successful at your natural assignment naturally. But to do it as a matter of God's purpose would require a local church that helps you to see value and handle that work that way. There's so much to be said on church, but this is not the time for that. And there are genuine concerns but I'm saying there is no concern to not have you aligned somewhere. Start somewhere you at least walking I mean you're walking in the light you have at the moment. Start somewhere. Take that step and then start to walk further from there. Now I haven't said that much. What do we do now? I'm being discipled. I'm in the local church. That's the first thing that I need to carry out my spiritual assignment. It's not it's unfortunate we have to depos my house. I'm praying about it. What does God want me to do in the work of ministry? We don't have such an idea from scripture. I mean even Paul that had such a call that I mean right out of his salvation he was aware of his ministry he was discipled still like he was learning immediately finished he was amongst the people amongst the disciples being taught he was of course preaching family which is precisely the point I'm making you are to carry out your spiritual assignment being a local church and go from where you are you notice Paul was traveling for something else but why I mean to go and persecute believers but right where he got saved immediately from there he was now being discipled and he began preaching from there. That wasn't his intended place of residence but he started right away from there. So that must be our disposition. Be discipled and go from where you are. But there are details we want to look at. What do I do when I go from where I am? But this the first thing you have a spiritual assignment. Be discipled and go from where you are. All right. We pick it up from here the next episode. Thank you. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, [music] God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst [music] on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
