---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 8)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6muxOj3QJA
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 8)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Brothers and sisters, you are on the Pllearos podcast. your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Now, we've seen a lot about God's purpose of recent. So, trust you're keeping up with it. And you know, we've seen from Ephesians 1:9 and 5 that God's purpose is sunship. Romans 8:15-17 that sunship means we are children of God and cares of God. which therefore means that God's purpose is we fellowshipping with him as children as well as walking in his nature and character. And on the other hand, God's purpose is we serving as hes of God. He wants us to serve as hes. We've explained that being hes of God means all that he owns belongs to us as joint hes with Christ which is all of creation. But it is well rooted in God's word that there's this seed beyond the joint inheritance we have. There's this severed inheritance where we have as individuals our own place in God's our own assignments, our own place in the grand scheme of God's purpose and plan. And we have been looking at what assignment exactly we have. We've seen that we have a natural assignment. We've seen some major text on that. Colossians 3:22 all the way to chapter 4 and verse one. We've also seen Ephesians 6:9. So there are certain assignments that we have natural assignment. Whatever you find your hand to do in the natural, the Lord has given it to you. Wow. Let me just say this, you know, and that's true of every believer. I do understand that there's the concept of full-time ministry today, which is born out of genuine desire to sacrifice one's heart, focus, and attention away from the world, all of it for the Lord. And I mean it's extremely helpful if one is genuinely faithful to it. And there are people that do that. But the rule rather than the exception is the reality that every believer minister alike is to be involved in their natural assignment and their spiritual assignment. Paul was it's a rule is an example that he showed. Read 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. Paul and his um prodigies were like that. There were some who were sort of an exception but it clearly didn't seem to be the rule from God's word as far as the data that we have is concerned. So we should be careful how horridly we rush into the conclusion of excluding ourel from our natural assignment even when you have very high responsibility in the work of ministry. So we have looked at this text that I've told us about our natural assignment. There's one more I want us to see this one. I'll come back to it later when we get to fulfilling our purpose. Right now, we're just concerned about what our purpose is. Just seeing it, just understanding it. So, 1 Corinthians 7 would be an additional text to help us appreciate what our our purpose is or our place as of God. Now, look at 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 17. But as God has distributed to each one, as the Lord has called each one, so let him walk. That word distributed is a very interesting word and is a word that has to do with inheritance as well. We'll see it particularly when we get to our spiritual assignment. That word is the word meo. Now meo is the verb that is related to the noun meos. The noun or adjective meos. There's also me and etc. But let's just stick with meo distributed and meos. Meos just means a part. You know we we saw the other word clarose where we have that word for being an hair or having an inheritance and clar means a lot a portion that is assigned to someone where you have claronomia and nomio that has been assign a lot has been assigned to you but this case is a part so you can see that the two words are sort of related right when you have a clar a lot given to you it's usually we can say not always because the lot can be the entire person's worth given to you but the lot is usually a part of what the person owns that is given to you. So in this case he said God has parted to each. Now this shows us there's a severe inheritance. You know I've been talking about that right? There's a sever severe inheritance. There was a sense where you are joined with Christ. Together with him we own all of creation. But here he's saying God has parted to each one as he has called each one. So he's talking about you know what was parted to you when you know the state in which you were called. That word as the Lord has called. The as there is talking about the condition, the state you were in at the point where you received the gospel. Now God's calling is the gospel. He calls us by the message of the gospel and we enter into the church. Now this is why the church is called an ecclesia people called out in this case out of darkness into his marvelous light which is by the gospel by the work of redemption accomplished in Christ. God calls you. You are called by him. that condition in which you are called by the gospel and in which you enter into God's purpose both at salvation and even at that point of let's use the word enlightenment about it because of course we have people that are saved and have zero idea that they are saved onto God's purpose and they are just walking in the dark about God's will for their life so salvation is like a compartment of their life gospel is a compartment of their life they have their own personal desires you can almost say that such people will be kind Without meaning to be offend offensive, they're usually kind of idolatrous about what they are doing in the natural because it's all about them and their passion for what they want to do, their fulfillment, their pride, everything that is on the line. They do not do what they do from the standpoint of submission to God and his will and his purpose and his plan which really isn't the way we should function. That's an idolatrous way of functioning and then compartmentalizing God. So at this point you are also relegating God when you act that way because it becomes one of the gods not the god in your life. You must be careful how you separate your natural assignment from God because it is his assignment for you given to you. You got to be careful how you do that right now. So he said as the Lord has parted to each one as he has called each one so work. Now so as I told you as he has called he's talking about the condition they were in at the point of God's call to them. And you're going to see that in the subsequent verses. Now to show you something very important. The next statement in this 1 Corinthians 7:1 17 is Paul saying what I just said. Now that simple statement is the rule of the church is the understanding because this is Bible truth is not just an opinion is given in this instance. It says and so I ordained in all the churches. The reason why I say this is because in 1 Corinthians 7 and particularly in 1 Corinthians as a whole, Paul shows that there is the place of individual judgment. In this particular chapter, verse chapter 7, there were instances where he said, "Yeah, this is my judgment and I say so because I have the spirit of God that you know, I can make that judgment. I have God's spirit and I think it serves you better to do this and to do that." But in this case, he's stating what is a general rule. I ordained this in all the churches. Now, let's go on to see what I'm getting at. Verse 18. Was anyone called while circumcised? So you can see as the Lord has called is talking about the condition you were in when the Lord called you. The condition you were in when the Lord called you. If you were circumcised, beautiful. You don't need to be uncircumcised. If you're uncircumcised, it's fine. You don't need to become circumcised. So he says circumcision is nothing. Unircumcision is not is nothing. So all these things in our natural standing, they do not affect our spiritual state. He says, "Let each one remain in the calling where which he was called." Verse 20. Now to the verse I want us to see. Vers 21. Were you called while a slave? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can be made free, rather use it. Let me read the next verse so you have a full appreciation of what is saying. For he who is called in the Lord, that means becomes saved becomes aware of God's will and purpose while a slave is the Lord's freed man. Likewise, who is called while free is Christ's slave. is saying that the Lord is well aware being God by his forn knowledge of whatever condition you are going to be in at the instance where you enter into his purpose and your walk with him starts there let the person remain in the condition the state wherein is called and then the person can make progress from there you don't need that he's saying there is not a requirement to change your status at salvation you can progress from there's not a need to change your status you can effectively be in God's purpose whatever state you are called. So your natural assignment begins from what you were doing at the instance you receive salvation or you become enlightened about God's purpose for your life. Your natural assignment begins from the natural state that you had at the time you receive salvation or you become enlightened about God's purpose. Very important. So the idea of our natural assignment being part and parcel of God's purpose is not something we can shake off. Is well established in scripture. It's an inheritance he has given unto us. I would like us to recognize that and treat it as such. Brothers and sisters, I want to show us that there is yet another assignment that we have which is our spiritual assignment. Like I've said before, a spiritual assignment ought to be treated as priority as a matter of its implication. Imagine a man is so faithful in his natural work and person has not received the gospel. The person doesn't grow to faithfully serve the Lord. All the efforts the person makes in the natural goes to waste. So there is no question about the value we ought to give to the place of our spiritual assignment. To treat it anything short of highest priority is to be ignorant of its place, his worth and its implication. It's that serious. It's very important. Huh? Interesting enough, by God's own design, our natural assignment takes the bulk of our time. Yet, by function of value, the value of each assignment, knowing that we are in a world that is going to all come to an end, as Peter says, but our faithfulness in service natural assignment goes with us. No doubt, but is a world all coming to an end. He said, what manner of persons ought we to be in holy conduct? That means the place of the spiritual cannot be relegated away from importance. It must hold a priority as a matter of his value. Despite the fact that as a matter of time dedicated by design, most people, not all, will dedicate more time to their natural assignments in their lifetime than their spiritual one. And it's not a sin. It's not likely you have anyone to preach to when most people are doing their natural assignment within working hours. But yet, the time we ought to allot to our natural assignment must not be ignored. So, I've just been making the assassion that we have a natural assignment. But I I want to show you in scripture um the evidence to that effect, I like to start from Acts chapter one. Even though Acts chapter one is very specific in its context. But to start from there and then show show you the um general text that speaks to all of us having a spiritual assignment. Some people say well God just calls certain people to ministry which we are saying when we talk about our spiritual assignment you're going to say we are talking about ministry. It's not for everyone. It just was some people. Is that really true? Now, in Acts 11:17, Judas had committed suicide and the role the Lord had called the 12 for needed a replacement of his part. Right? It needed a replacement of his part. In that light, Peter then says in Acts 11:17, "For he was numbered with us and obtained a part in this ministry." Guess the word part. there is not meos interestingly it is claros so a portion a lot in the ministry so it says there is this ministry and this ministry has different portions so it has Judas had a lot in this ministry and Judas messed it up he was numbered amongst us he obtained a lot but he's messed it up I want you to see the next verse that is important here which is verse 25 I'll start from 24 and he prayed this Is Peter praying alongside others? No doubts. And they prayed and said, "You, oh Lord, who know the hearts of all? Show which of these two you have chosen to take part in this ministry." That word part again is clear. So is to take this specific part which is Judas's part in this ministry and apostilhip from which Judas by transgression fell that he might go to his own place. So there was a lot that Judas had and he had fallen from that. So when it comes to ministry which is a spiritual work this idea of a lot and part is used for ministry. Does that extend to all believers is the question we have to answer as we introduce the understanding of our spiritual assignment. It does. When we see this wholesomely and see your natural assignment and spiritual assignment we have a complete wholesome view of what God's purpose for our life is and how we ought to interact and function with the same. So God's purpose is sunship. You are God's child and God and God's hair. as is here. You have a spiritual assignment and a natural assignment. We'll start to talk about our spiritual assignment on the next one. Catch you on that. God bless you. Bye. Bye. &gt;&gt;
