---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 18)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IUVIS_XbHYs
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 18)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, welcome back to the Playos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming to transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And this is our very last episode on the mind of man. We want to really finish up on the subject matter on the focus we have been having on consciousness in the mind of man. Now um you recall that our study has been inspired by the understanding we have of God's purpose which is sunship. So we are called by God to be in his family, fellowship with him as well as with other members of the family, but also to carry out the assignments that he has for us. And this assignment that God has for us, we have seen is both natural and spiritual. There's a road map to follow in carrying out our assignment. And very importantly, we need the capacity, the strength, the development to fulfill that assignment. So this helped us to see the need for disciplehip. We saw the need for disciplehip. We saw the need for the perfecting of the saints. Without disciplehip, without the perfecting of the saints, we will be too weak or ineffective in bearing the burdens of purpose as we walk the path, the road, the journey of purpose. Now, because of all we have seen, it has become imperative for us to understand this growth that we need to bear the burden of purpose. What we identified is that this growth does not happen in our spirit. So, we don't grow spiritually in our spirit. We grow in our minds. So spiritual growth is the growth of the spirit on our minds. The influence of God's word, the influence of God's truth, the influence of God's spirit on our mind. Right? So mind is the place the seat of growth and it has forced us to study on the mind of man. If you recall, we have seen a couple of things on the mind of man already. Um we have seen first that man is a spirit with a mind that has a body with a brain and that our spirit is in a complete perfect and divine state. But our mind needs to match up and our mind matching up requires knowledge. But not just knowledge, something needs to happen to another part of our mind which happens by reckoning by by affirming and that affects our consciousness. So if we come to church and we receive the knowledge of the word, the knowledge of God's word affects our conviction. Right? So we are reasoning through what he said. We are meditating through what is said and then from that we can agree or disagree with what we have heard which forms our conviction. So knowledge affects your conviction. It enlightens your mind. You know you are now convinced. But then we need to reckon present ourselves and that affects our consciousness. But we want to explain that word consciousness today which we said it is primarily taken from that word conscience. And we have been looking at Titus 1:15 as it explains the word conscience to us. Titus 1:15. Titus said, "To the pure all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving. Nothing is pure, but even their mind and conscience are defiled. But even their mind and conscience are defiled." Um, so the word conscience, you know, is the word in the Greek sunis. And I want us to understand that word conscience. You know, sometimes people say, "My conscience can't take it." What do you mean when you say your conscience can't take it? My conscience cannot bear that. I cannot, you know, um I am convicted by my conscience. I want to do that or my conscience will have me do this. I just have to do it because of my conscience. What exactly do you mean? The word conscience in the Greek is sunis is from two words. The word sun that means together and the second word ado. The word ado means to perceive. So it means to perceive together. So when we see the wordis is implying that there are two entities that are perceiving. Now ordinarily perception is a natural phenomenon. So you are either seeing, hearing, tasting, feeling, smelling. You are perceiving with your senses. So it's a natural phenomenon. But when you use the word conscience, you are not talking about the perception in the natural. You are talking about a perception with the perception in the natural. So that's or do you are perceiving with the perception in natural and let me explain we talking now about a mental perception a co-perception your mind perceiving alongside what your natural perception is. So if you believe that okay let's use an example there there are ways you find that males believe certain things about females and females believe certain things about males. There are some people who unfortunately their minds have been poisoned and because of what they believe about men, if they see a man walk up to them having a conversation with them and for some people they might sincerely have had maybe quite terrible experiences, something bordering upon some um abusive experiences and if someone walks up to them to greet them, have an handshake with them, immediately it could send a trigger to their mind and they react. That's their conscience reacting. what the person did, he could have done it to another person and it would have meant it would have been entirely harmless. But to them, what that person did is considered something harmful. They were not even trying to think deeply about it. Their conscience was reacting. So their conscience in this case is the perception of their mind alongside the perception they had in the natural. they are seeing a particular person doing something that they consider you know hard or something that they that is a form of trigger to them and then they react in that way. So we are seeing a conscience that needs to be healed. We can see a conscience that is said that means in some cases someone's conscience can become unfeilling towards something they should feel something about right. So you know maybe they should feel grieved about something their conscience is now unfilling about the matter. Some other times we see people's conscience that are too sensitive things that they are not supposed to feel anything about they are feeling something about it. And all of this is our making. Our conscience is not automatically trust on us. We actually are the ones who determine the state of our conscience. Let's say a particular text Acts chapter 24 is a very central and important text. Acts 24 before we come back to that Titus Acts 24. So our consciences are making and our conscience is a big deal. Usually there's a mistake we make. We think about our conscience as the judgment we make at the instance that it is active. You know someone does something and you're like no that's evil. My conscience can't be it. And you think that's the conscience you are pointing to. But your conscience is what precedes the very instance of the perception. So there are three levels to your conscience. The first one is there's a preceding consciousness you have. The second one is there's a moment of perception. So there's a preceding consciousness. There's a moment when you perceive the thing. And the third one is there's a judgment. So your conscious judgment. We often see the conscious judgment and the person's reaction. So we we comment on people's conscience based on the active state of it. The conscious judgment and actions that they are making. But really the root of it is the state of their consciousness. Now look at Acts 16 24:16. Paul said, "This being so, I myself always strive to have a conscience without offense towards God and men." This being so, I myself always strive to have a conscience without offense towards God and men. That is, your conscience might not be right. You know, if your conscience thinks that that um let's say someone that has been um indoctrinated to think that rice is bad. [clears throat] I mean that is just an hypothetical situation that it's almost rare and impossible to to see but someone has been indoctrinated to see that. And I mean it could also happen for reasons. Maybe they feel his eye sugar etc. But just generally the person has been indoctrinated think rice is poisonous. Now that person's conscience is not right because it is disproportionate to reality. You have to be able to ensure your conscience aligns with truth. So you feel about things the way they actually are. So if you are seeing poison, your conscience should recognize that is poison. If you are seeing what is good, your conscience should recognize that is good. It shouldn't be in an offended state, which means it is contrary to what is right, what is true, what is reality. Okay? And it is your work to make your conscience that way. Paul says, "I always strive to have a conscience that is without offense. Is not misaligned towards God and men." All right? So is without offense. You need to have a right conscience and that people can see it to be so. Of course, you know, that can't be necessarily everybody. Some people are, you know, bound to think of you different ways, but you have to strive to ensure your conscience is truth aligned. That means it's right before God. And usually it to be evident before sincere men. Okay. So our conscience is our making. Your conviction is your making. Many things about your mind that you're making. Right? So your conviction is your making. But also your conscience is your making. You have to be intentional about the state of your conscience. Now if you have had a background where you had certain experiences, your conscience will be that way. If you see people of a particular kind you already start you know your mind starts going um you know there's a saying when people have experienced so many evil people they start to even suspect good people right so and that is a matter of the state of their conscience I mean people could tell something say something harmless could act in a particular manner but their conscience is a victim of trauma and they have they have not addressed fixed they have not as Paul said here they have not done the work striving to fix their conscience. You need to be intentional about working on your conscience to make it what it is supposed to be. You cannot leave your conscience to be a victim of circumstances. So, experiences, your background, places you have been to. Maybe you know you grow up in a kind of home. It has affected your conscience. Maybe you went to boarding school and you had all kinds of experiences there. It has affected your conscience. You need to be intentional about making your conscience right. Making your conscience truth aligned. You need to be intentional about making your conscience truth align. Now let's go back to that Titus text. Titus chapter 1 and 15. I want to show you that the commentary Paul made about conscience. He has already shown us what led to those people having that kind of conscience whilst warning his own audience talking to Timoth Titus rather and then his congregation about that. So see Titus 1:3, he says, "This testimony is true. Therefore, rebuke them sharply that they may be sound in the faith." So he's saying he should correct people that have a certain mindset so that they can be sound in the faith, not giving Eid to Jewish fables. So you're about to see why their conscience is defiled. They are giving Eid. So you can change your conscience by changing what you are giving Eid to, what you are reinforcing, what you are presenting, what you are reckoning. He said not giving it to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn from the truth. Oh, I don't know if you are saying this. So what is expected of our conscience? Our conscience is meant to be truth aligned. Many times when people deviate from the right state on their of when they deviate from the truth, they are deviating from what is expected of their conscience. For example, you find believers that they are more conscious of their flaws, of their inadequacies, of their sins or their sinfulness or their capacity to do wrong than they are conscious of who they are in Christ. Right? What EW KM can call a sin consciousness. They are just always like, "Oh, I'm a sinner. I'm a worm and so on and so forth." That is not the idea that we get from God's word. We ought to align our conscience with the truth by giving heed, putting our minds and paying attention to that which is true about us. So our conscience is that important and we have a lot of work to do in that regard. That's the renewing of our mind. That's the reckoning of ourselves. That's the presenting of ourselves as who we are in Christ. When we do this, we are transforming our mind. And at this point we talk about our mind we are talking about this specific part of our mind our consciousness that affects what we do. Now I want to show us something that this part of our mind that we call consciousness is also what is called the Eden man or the inner man is called the Eden man or the inner man. I may not have enough time to make the point but I'm still going to make it nonetheless. I I'll probably reference it when we are looking at faith stand from the coming episodes. In first Peter chapter 3 and in verse chapter 3 and in verse three and four, Peter was encouraging women particularly when they have unbelieving husbands. He told them that they should not just adorn themselves outwardly. 1 Peter 3 and:3 it says do not let your adornments be merely outward arranging the hair wearing gold or putting on fine apparel rather let it be the hidden person of the art so he's saying the way you put on gold you make your hair and you treat your outward man he's telling you to put on something in the hidden man of the heart now he can't tell you to put on anything in your inward man which is your spirit because it's in a complete perfect and divine state. So when it says to put on something in the hidden person of the heart at pointing to our mind now let me say this most of the instances of heart in scripture is for the mind it is very rare almost to the exclusion of even a single instance but maybe there may be of heart meaning spirit. Heart is usually pointing to the mind. You might now need to know what aspect of the mind is being spoken of. But the hidden person of the heart is talking about that part of our mind that is like a man that produces the conduct we have. So there's the reasoning part of your of your mind that is not the hidden man or person of the heart. The person that you are on the outside is the person that you are on the inside which is not your reasoning which is not your conviction. It's your consciousness. What you are adoning there, what you are affirming there makes for the conducts that you have. So the hidden man of your heart is your mind's conscience or consciousness that produces the conducts that you have. I know there's still so much to see here. I should have shown you Ephesians chapter 1. We'll see all of that when we start to look at faith stand in the next episode. See you on the next one. Thank you. you. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your [music] questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, [music] don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in [music] his purpose.
