---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 2)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8TGip24GHWc
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 2)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome to another episode of the Plleos podcast. We serve you your daily dose of God's word that transforms you to fulfill God's purpose. We're looking at a new subject matter from the last episode or we've begun looking at a new subject matter which is the mind of man. I want us to jump right in and we are studying this because we have seen what God's purpose is for our life. Sunship he has called us to be his child and his ears which means he has given us assignment to fulfill even as we walk in fellowship with him and as we walk in his character. So you know you have certain assignments to do. You have your natural assignment. You have your spiritual assignment. You're only going to be able to do it as you fellowship with the father. But then you need to grow even if you understand the journey, the pursuit, the entire road map of what you need to do to fulfill God's purpose. You still will be unable to do what he has called you to without growth. In the postit of God's purpose, essentially we're given the road map of God's will. Like you could see the journey. Let me use an example. We look at natural assignment. It starts from where you are. It moves into opportunities that comes to you and then proceeds into your freedom of choice to do what you want to do. We looked at spiritual assignments. It requires commitment to the local church. Then you have to take different initiatives to go which means you are not just in your space. You look for ways to crossroads with other people to interact with other people. You go majorly physically but equally virtually or subsequently maybe virtually anyone you want to say. You go then you preach and then not only do you preach receptive of the word. You disciple them and help them to grow onto their own commitment to God's purpose which makes you lead them. So we can give you the road map of your natural assignment and give you the road map of your spiritual assignment. But when all that is said and done, even if you see the entire road, if you can't bear the burden in the way and manner that the Lord expects you to, then you need to be able to bear the burden of purpose. It's not enough that you simply know the journey. You must be able to bear the burden of purpose and that requires growth. The major text we've seen on growth is Ephesians 4. The reason why we've centered on Ephesians 4 is the Lord told us in Matthew 28, we need disciplehip. And in Luke 6 he explained that disciplehip as we been perfected to become as the master. Luke 6:40 a disciple cannot be more than his master. That is in disciplehip the goal is to be just as the master. You can't be more but you can be just as. And with the word used there he that is perfectly trained or perfect will be as the master is the word katiso. The verb which is then used in Ephesians 4 and verse 12 in its noun form. Katismos. So the noun is used in Ephesians 4 and verse 12. All of that to say that the Lord Jesus gave the leaders of the church to disciple us. And the disciplehip has his goal. It has his end point. The end point of disciplehip verse 13 is said to be the unity of the faith, the knowledge of the son of God. It doesn't stop there. Uses four descriptions. Two descriptions are talking about knowledge. The other two are talking about stature or growth. We are to come to the entire knowledge of God's word. We could say unity of the faith knowledge of the son of God. It then says we are to come to the perfect man, the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Verse 13, there is this end point of knowledge and this end point of growth that the Lord has set for us. But if you notice, knowledge is about the mind. You need to know that's something that has to do with the mind. But also the perfect measure of stature of the fullness of Christ is also about the mind. We can make the mistake of thinking that yeah there's the mind part we know but when we grow that is no longer a mind issue that is something happening to our spirit you know sometimes people even use the example and illustration to say that oh if I look at your spirit man yeah in the spirit realm I mean is it going to be so malnourished is he going to be so battered is he going to be really deprived of food or of good nourishment etc that manner of thinking about our spirit is very wrong and could be a real hindrance to our spiritual growth. So we need to be clear that the place that defines the entirety of our growth is our mind. And I'm going to zoom in on that fact today. Um this episode rather um Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 17. Paul after he told them about the work that the church would do to them says this I say therefore and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk. Paul there is simply saying that on the premise of what the church has done our work is to change. You notice the word therefore. So on what the church does, your work ought to change. You shouldn't walk as the rest of the Gentiles work. Rest of the Gentiles simply is talking about the unbelieving folks. You would have to appreciate the mindset of the author as well as his audience. There was the understanding that the reality of salvation was primarily for the Jews and the in that sense the Gentiles were outside. Now it's something he had resolved in Ephesians 2, but it's still their way of speaking when they say rest of the Gentiles to talk about those who are yet to believe the gospel, those who are yet to have the life of God, the light of God in them, those who are yet to have the nature of God in them. So when he says, I don't want you to walk as the rest of those who don't believe the gospel do, how do they work is the question. It says they walk in the futility of their mind. Now, all the phrases that he used here from Ephesians 4:17 to Ephesians 4:18 to describe why the Gentiles walk the way they do are phrases that relate with the mind except one. Use five phrases. Futility of their mind, their understanding darkened, alienated from the life of God, ignorance that is in them, blindness of their heart. Use five phrases to describe why they walk the way they do. and only one is unrelated with the mind which is alienated from the life of God. That's definitely talking about their nature rather than having the life of God. They do not have the life of God. They are dead. Now let's see Ephesians 2:12 to butress the point but it's going to lead us to some study here. Ephesians 2:1 it says you he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins. So everyone who is a believer was once dead in trespasses and sin because the reign of sin and death in this world eventually takes his toll before our salvation. So you were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked according to the course of this world according to the prince of the power of the year. So he's describing the same walk he was talking about in Ephesians 4. He's like you guys were dead and you were walking that way. Now at this at this point in Ephesians 2 he says nothing about the mind. But the next verse, verse three of Ephesians 2, we talk about the mind again. But for now, it's simply saying you were dead. That's your nature. And you were walking as dead. I mean, they were alive, they were living dead. You could say they were alive, but they were dead. Physically alive, spiritually dead. Let's say you were walking according to the course of this world. Because the state in death you are in is a state of darkness that defines the world, a state of immorality, a state of righteousness, etc. You're walking according to the cause of this world. According to the prince of the power of the end, the spirit and now works in the sons of disobedience. Now verse three says amongst whom also we all once conducted ourselves. So he's talking about other people that were unbelieving who he called the sons of disobedience. It says amongst them we conducted ourselves in the lust of the flesh. At this point again is still the nature lust of the flesh. Chapter one says you are dead in trespasses. You are walking according to the course of the world. You are walking similar to other folks that were unbelieving. Then it says you are walking in the lust of the flesh. But look at the next one. Fulfilling the desires of the flesh. That's still nature and of the mind. So he's saying that there were desires that pertain to our nature but they had their reign on our mind. They were dominant force on our mind. So we feeling desires of the flesh and of the mind. Those desires of the flesh were on the mind. So they are desires of the flesh. Romans 6 and 12 says do not let sin. So he's using sin as a slave master in that sense. Do not let sin reign. So he's a slave master. Sin is reigning in your mortal body that you should obey it in its lust and is reigning via his desires. So they are desires of sin. It is pushing out his lust out them in this world is being masterfully done and manned by the devil and his quads. So sin's propaganda is going on in this world and if one receives and accepts that the person is going to walk accordingly and they receive it on their mind. He's saying you used to walk in your nature of the flesh and the desire of your mind. It had taken over your mind. But notice this. So let me read verse three all the way again so you can get the full picture. It says amongst whom you once conducted yourself in the lust of the flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind and were by nature children of wrath just as the others. I don't know if you got that. So he's saying there is the nature you had but your work was a product of that nature and your mind. Well, that is it's possible for someone to have a contrary nature, a contrary mind and then or it is the case that people when they have a contrary nature have a contrary mind and work. So I wanted to say something else. It's also possible for someone to have a contrary thought still has a contrary mind but it is much more refined than others and therefore they going to have a refined work that will still reflect the flesh in one regard or the other whether it's in pride whether it's in selfishness whether it's in self-righteousness because once there's no faith in the redemptive work of Christ Jesus there's a self-dependence that is going on without redemption you are not relying entirely there's a pride that's why he says the meek will the earth because the the fact that you put your faith in Jesus is an acknowledgement of I am poor in spirit. You remember the biatitudes that's why I'm quoting Mark chapter 5 blessed are the poor in spirit. He said blessed are the meek that would inherit the earth. So he's giving us all these descriptions of people who recognize something is wrong with me and I need help that only God can provide a redemption. This is why not believing in the gospel is fatal because no matter how well you have refined your mind, it is still being done under the premise of self-righteousness or pride. I mean we'll be grateful for anybody who has a refined mind however contrary to I mean who has a refined mind however the nature that they have his is a beautiful thing not to worsen the state of your mind if you do when you get saved you might still have a lot of work to do as you will see but we mustn't downplay the importance of the change in nature that we need which begins with this humility that I am flawed I need help I am poor in spirit when Luke was quoting the batitude he flipped it the other And he said woe to the rich. But they were not really rich. It's the mindset that they have that they are not poor in spirit that they don't need help. Know sometimes people might say oh yeah I need help but you know they still have this sense that self righteousness cut it when it comes to salvation that it's just oh God's mercy but I keep trying like no no no you are poor. You have to make you cannot even afford your right standing. You need salvation. Well this is not a message on that but important to plug that in. Now where I stopped was looking at the state of the mind. So it says that these folks are walking the way they do not just because they have the flesh that has lost but because it has gained the dominance in their mind. Back in Ephesians chapter 4 he says the only reason why we will not walk as the rest of genders do is if something has happened to our mind. He says they walking that way in the futility of our mind. So it's sort of warning that if we keep the same mind we used to have. Remember Ephesians 2 is talking about those of us who have believed the gospel said you who were dead in trespasses and sins he has made alive in which he once walked according to the course of this world. You were fulfilling desires of the flesh as well as of the mind and you were by nature children of ros that mind is not automatically changed our salvation. Ephesians 2 has just pointed out that the mind that is picking up in Ephesians 4 is a mind that we had before and is charging us that via the work of the church we are not meant to walk in that same mind again because something ought to have changed about that mind and if nothing has changed about that mind we're going to walk just the way we used to before and that's a whole lot of problem we could handle our natural assignment the same way like Ephesians 4:28 will say let him that still steal no moral let him labor working with designer which is good I may have to A lot of things need to change about our mind. We are still building up on this the mind of man. You need to appreciate understand the role of your mind when it comes to your walk in God's purpose. I'm telling you everything boils down to that. But in the next episode, we're going to see it better. Catch you on that one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. [music] Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst [music] on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
