---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 5)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Om2JPGEIlfo
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 5)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome to another episode of the Ply Rose podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. We have been making some progress in our learnings in our studies. We have seen some things already. We have seen the place that we ought to give the gospel in our lives. And we've said that we shouldn't regard the gospel as just about our salvation and then that's all there is to it. That's going to be a shallow incomplete understanding of the gospel. Whilst many times we find that the gospel is described with our salvation is because two things ought to come to mind the moment we hear the word salvation and that is what we are being saved from as well as what we are saved to. calling the gospel salvation or redemption should give us a wholesome view of what is about. But precisely we said that we should hold and treat the gospel as the truth of our life. And in that place of truth, one of the core answers it gives us is the answer to the question of purpose. And we have seen the objective answer and revelation of God about his purpose for our lives. And that is the fact that our lives are or that he made the world for sunship. That's what he tells us directly that his purpose is. I've tried to encourage us to stick strictly without direct revelation that God has given about his purpose because often times when we do other than that we are standing on shaky grounds. I've heard many descriptions of God's purpose that we can reconcile with that which has directly revealed as his purpose which is sunship but that sort of leave us on shaky grounds. For example, I used an example the other time. You can say oh God's purpose is for us to know Jesus and make him known. If we understand the entire scope of God's purpose, it can come across as off and there's a place we can say well to know Jesus is a prototype example of sunship. That would be correct in that sense and because is in that light as well that God who became man Jesus Christ being the core example the central example of sunship is said to be the reason or the essence or the beginning of all creation. That's kind of like a different place from the reality of divinity is God's self-existence and we're now saying oh sunship which is the embodiment of is the essence and the reason for creation. So there might be you know there could be that way of interpreting that presentation. Another way we can hear people describe God's purpose is to say that the reason for our lives is to glorify God. Certain texts might be coded to the effect that are not directly speaking to God's purpose, but that, you know, can be used to express an aspiration that we ought to have to glorify God. And again, we could reconcile that with God's purpose because all that we do in God's purpose is to please and glorify him. But, you know, it's like anything in life, you could use several descriptions of the real thing and you better served just saying the real thing. If we asked what is God's purpose, we are best served by just saying it is sunship. That's what pleases God. That's what glorifies God. That is us fully having the knowledge of the son of God, knowing Jesus and carrying out his will for our life. So I encourage you to wire your understanding this way so that you can focus your pursuits in accordance with that. You don't want the situation where you are found intentionally as Luke 12 was pointing out knowing God's will but ignoring it and not doing it. Luke 12:47 and48 talks about it says he that knew but did not prepare would visit Christ but he that did not know yet did things deserving of stripe will be beaten with few stripes we want to be found on the right side or of eternal judgment I'm talking about judgment for our rewards in this case having said all of that let's take it back to where we were so we have seen the truth as the place the gospels in our life we have seen God's purpose is sunship we have explained it to be his child and to be his here which means we're called to fellowship and walk in his nature on one hand and on the other hand we are called to the assignment he has given to us which is a natural assignment and a spiritual assignment. We have this view of God's purpose. Now that said we went further from that to the pursuit of God's purpose. We have seen the reality of it then. Now we're looking at the pursuit of God's purpose. We've been looking at some texts to explain that the general rule when it comes to the pursuit of God's purpose is to start where you are. That's the general rule. The general rule when it comes to the pursuit of God's purpose is to start where you are. And our cardinal text in that regard has been 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and 17. He said, "As God has parted to each one, as God has called each one, so let him walk." Now I should say that the general context of the particular text of that particular text is marriage and he had spoken about the fact that some people at the point of salvation find themselves already married to unbelievers and even though that's not the rule for saints in Christ that God's fornowledge has accounted for it and so in that condition that they have found themselves they should continue their work but he showed that that particular statement was not only restricted to that context of marriage but extends to other things as a rule laid down in the churches. So he said I have ordained this in all the churches. That means it's an important rule about salvation is an important rule about God's call and God's purpose for our life that we should be aware of that we take into account that the state in which we get saved or find out about God's purpose is for known by him and is where he wants us to begin our walk with him. So he mentioned whether you are circumcised or not continue in that state where you are born continue in that state whether you are poor or rich start from there that's the beginning of God's work in his purpose for you there is no condition that now if you're in a wrong you are in a condition where in a wrong the word of God to use to repent from that wrong you are saved you repent from that wrong and start your walk from there but whatever condition you are found in statuswise etc you are meant to start from there to carry about God's purpose and that includes the condition you are found in relative to natural work which is now God's assignment allotment to you. It is his creation is his allotment to you. So he says if you are a slave don't be bothered about it in our world today we could take that more as if you're an employee you are a career person if you are freelancer or if you are a master or a business owner it says don't be bothered about it. So whatever condition that you are found in start from there. Your walk with God starts in that is not fighting against that. So it is precisely within God's own orchestration. You can also say God's providence for you to begin your walk in his purpose from there. So rather than fighting that, it says rather use it. Use the conditions in which you are found and begin to do what the Lord wants you to do. And that's where we started from. From there we said two other things about your natural assignment. So start where you are at. Then he said if you can be made free use it. And I explained that as about taking advantage of opportunities. Then in 1 Corinthians 7 but in verse 31 this time around it says those who use this world as not misusing it. So these a different class of people. This is not a case of someone bound to do something by circumstances. This is not a case of someone having opportunity and taking advantage of of it. This is a case of someone freely of the person's own vition using the world as a person desires. Now this is an important rule when it comes to the posit of our natural assignment. We have that privilege of the liberty of our will and desire to choose what we want to do. Now indeed circumstances kind of gives us some boundaries of options if you want to say so. But again our imagination which again is it could be a function of exposure gives us another level of liberty in pursuit. But still it's your choice. It's quite different from spiritual assignment that is more restrictive than natural assignment. Rational our natural assignment from God's word. We find that there's such an acknowledgement of our liberty of choice in pursuing what we want to do. The liberty of our choice to pursue what we want to do. So you can see your spiritual assignment say I like to be like such and such a person and that is not what you're meant to do. That's not your place and that's not your part. Quite different when it's a natural assignment. You start where you are. We take advantage of opportunities that come to you and you can freely use the word as you want to as long as you are not misusing it. That is the rule of God's word on the matter and it will be very important that you acknowledge that so you can pursue your natural assignment without any fear of oh am I really doing what God wants me to do. I I can imagine and this something I've noticed you can even find someone in secondary school someone really young and person is like oh what does God want me to do? Does he want me to be a doctor or does he want me to be a lawyer or does he want me to be a pastor or does he want me to be this or that? I do think that such restrictions can be very challenging if people hold or have them. And it's not uncommon to find people having such thoughts like oh well am I meant to do this or am I meant to do that is not the best way for us to unfold in God's purpose. The best way is to have an understanding that as touching our natural assignment, we are free to do what we want to do except constrained by circumstances or opportunities. But beyond that, then you are free to do whatever you want to do. That's your choice. Now when it comes to spiritual assignment, we then have to talk about how that unfolds, which is what we want to get into right now. I start to lay the background for that. But I hope you really get the natural assignment path. This is important. Like you are raising a child, you don't need to oh like put the burden on that child. You need to find out precisely what God is saying and this and that. All the orchestrations including that person being your child, the places they have gone to, these are things known to God upon the person's arrival, upon the person's own knowledge of God's purpose and how to navigate life. Let your ass lead you. There's some other things I'll say not in this particular episode that will be very very important. So, but it will be in another episode I'll talk about that because even when people are free, they always trying to optimize for perfection. and I must just do something without mistakes and errors. That is not the way of God. That's not the way of truth. That's not wisdom of God's word. I would explain. It's not carelessness I'm talking about. But you're going to see that it is part and parcel of God's truth to take initiative to just take initiative right now. But let's leave that and let's move on to how do I pursue my spiritual assignment. So don't forget the purpose of God's purpose begins with I commit to a life of fellowship with him. And in that fellowship I'm growing to walk in his nature and character. Now I am pursuing my natural assignment. But I now have this spiritual assignment that I am meant to do. How exactly am I meant to carry out this spiritual assignment that the Lord has for me? Again, we find that the rules are the same with natural assignment in the sense of start where you are. The rules are the same in that regard. Start where you are. The very instructions that explain our natural assignment which is ministry to us are instructions that you carry out from where you are except otherwise stated specific. You are specifically instructed otherwise. And you can see that that's an exception or the rule. And if it's an exception, you don't need to go looking for an exception. An exception will come looking for you. You once you have been given the rule again by God because that's his word. Then you don't need to go hunting for an exception. if there's going to be an exception or to come looking for you and that itself is a rule in God's word as long as you are carrying out your everything else in his purpose which is your devotional life. You don't go looking for exceptions. People like doing things like that maybe to feel good about it or something. But that's kind of like time wasting. It's not for you to go looking for exceptions. It's rather for you to to go with what you have been instructed directly by God. Now the text I'm talking about that lead us in this regard. We'll look at maybe 12 of them. Mark 16 and 15. He says go into all the world preach the gospel to every creature. He that believes baptized be saved that believes not to be damned. Then he says these signs follow them that believe. He just said go. So from where you are now in this case interestingly I told them where to meet him. He'll tell them where to stay. But as far as the instruction applies to us as those who are secondary the secondary audience from the people spoken to the instruction is go and it means it starts from where you are and that's the rule. The exception may come looking for you, but that is not for you to look for. Start with the rule. We'll continue from there on the next episode. Catch you on that one. &gt;&gt;
