---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 7)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ThmlZHAmB_E
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 7)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Plleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Now we are present looking at the mind of man. We've seen a number of things. We've seen what God's purpose is. We've seen the road map of God's purpose. We have seen growth as how we fulfill God's purpose. But in that study, it brought us to the conclusion that the mind of man is really what determines whether we fulfill God's purpose. I've said it this way that our life is directly a product of our mind. That's how critical and how important our mind is relative to our walk in and fulfillment of God's purpose. Our life is a product of our mind and so important that we understand the mind of man. What plays out there? What affects what and what leads to the results that we see in our life. Now appreciating the place of our mind helped us to also see the place of our spirit. I should just repeat a couple of things. We already know what God's purpose is sunship. We are God's child and God's heirs. We have to walk in fellowship with God and in his nature and character. Then we are called to pursue and fulfill the assignments that he has given onto us. So it takes this growth that happens on our minds for us to fulfill his purpose for our lives. Now our minds are so powerful, so important. We cannot overstate the importance of our minds. But it raises questions that so what happened at salvation if we have this business to do on our minds. What exactly happened at salvation? And is that study that led us to paying attention to two text about who we are as humans? Like who man is maybe I should say wholesomely. And we said 1 Thessalonians 5:23 is one text to put in mind. It says may the God of peace sanctify you completely. I think that's what it says. says then he said may all spirit, soul and body be preserved blameless until the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes. So he describes us holistically. Man is holistically spirit, soul and body. I've said we shouldn't be quick to jump to the conclusion that soul is mind. Even if it's a possible intention in this text, but it is not always the case when we see soul that it is equal to mind. It doesn't change the import of the teachings that have said man is a spirit as a soul in the sense of mind and lives in a body. So we can say man is a spirit has a mind and lives in a body. The teaching the substance of what is taught in those things are not affected but the use of the term itself can particularly affect us when it comes to certain text. It could mislead mislead us in understanding certain text. So but we'll come to that later. So we see that man holistically is spirit, soul and body. The approach that Paul takes in describing man in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 is a little different. He didn't say spirit soul and body. He just said inward man and outward man. Right? 2 Corinthians 4:1 16 says therefore we do not lose heart even though our outward man is perishing. Yet our inward man is being renewed day by day. So there is this description of man as inward man, outward man. That is if we and I said that once you use the terminologies inward and outward you are covering the entire reality of a thing from that perspective. You could have spoken of that thing in terms of its parts. You know the different parts based on their functionalities that make up the thing in question but you are choosing to speak of it just from this angle of the inner and the outer reality of that thing. So he's saying man is entirely inward man and outward man and the outward man happens to be perishing whilst the inward man is renewed day by day stays the same stays unchanging. Now I made a conclusion that we are going to build upon in this particular episode which is we can think of the inward man and outward man as parallels. In fact that's his intention when he says inward man and outward man he's using man in both instance right inward man outward man. man man the essential framework of humanity is saying is at play in both instances. Okay. So and then said that we can think of man this way as a body as one who has a body with a brain as well as a spirit with a mind. You can think of man as one that has a body with a brain and a spirit with a mind. Now this is the biblical position on the matter and I'm going to show us a particular account that the Lord gave that helps us to see this which is the account of Lazarus and the rich man. It points out in a very clear way let me just say the realities of the inward and the outward man. Let's just go there Luke chapter 16 and verse 19. Luke 16 and verse 19. In verse 19, it says, "There was a certain rich man who was clothed in purple, fine linen, and fed sumptuously, but there was a certain beggar named Lacaros." So, this doesn't seem to be a parable or a fictitious account. It looks very much like an actual account. He avoided disclosing the rich man for discretion sake. And it says he was just a rich man clothed in purple finally fed sumptuously, but there was a sudden beggar named Lazarus full of sors who was laid at his gate. So these are two men which we realize that man is inward man outward man. So we can say these are two people that have inward man outward have a inward man an inward man and an outward man. Then he says Lazarus desire to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table. Moreover dogs came and licked the source. So it was that the beggar died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's bosom. So at this juncture you can start to see this reality of inward man and outward man play out. When he said the beggar died, it's not the case that his spirit died. It's rather the case that his outward man died. His body died and he was carried by angels. You can say he was led, he was born by angels to Abraham's bosom. That again is not the outward. In this case, it's not the outward man. It's the inward man that was led to Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. So his houseward man died and it was buried and being in torment in Hades which makes very clear that his body's outward man was buried but there was another part of him that was in torment in Hades which is pointing to his inward man. He lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham a far off and Lazarus again Lazarus's inward man at his bosom also Abraham's inward man in in this mercy compartment of Hades or L. Some text will put the word L. It's just which means the place of the dead. It's part of the reign of death but is like a temporary holding place in the reign of death before the final judgments. I sometimes like to use the example of someone is accused of a crime. Maybe the crime is so serious and they will not grant bail for it for certain reasons maybe national security. The person can be put in custody even though judgment has not been passed. In some cases the person is remanded you know in prison. put in custody at first, maybe reminded in prison, but this is not serving a sentence yet until eventually the person is sentenced and goes to serve. So this is like the temporary holding place, can be like custody, can be like a period of being reminded, but is not yet the judgment or sentence. Is not what is called lake of fire, the second death. In fact, Revelation says it this way in Revelation 20 from verse 13 to 15 that death and so is part of the first death. death and it is will be cast into the lake of fire and this is the second death. Luke 16:24. Now we want to see the realities of this inward man because at this point of the account the Lord is giving they have passed their time on earth their outward man is dead their bodies that is and now we are seeing the interaction of their inward man. What happens when we see the interaction of their inward man it says then he cried and said father Abraham have mercy on me. So we see there's some recognition that he has of a person Abraham and he also recognizes Lazarus. There are many arguments here about the supernatural capacities to know of the inward man at that stage. But those are not our concerns here. So, father Abraham have mercy on me and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue for I am tormented in this plain. But Abraham said, "Son, remember that in your lifetime." So, the fact that he recognized Lazarus shows his mind is at play. The fact that he was told to remember in your lifetime shows his mind, his memory is still present. yet is without his body. Remember that in your lifetime you receive your good things and likewise Lazarus evil things. But now he's comforted and you are tormented. And besides all these between us and you there's a great God fixed so that those who want to pass from here to here cannot answer. Let me just jump. Verse 27. You can see another part of his mind playing out in verse 27. He said, "I beg you therefore, father, that you would send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers." So, this is all on his mind, and yet he's without his outward man and his brain. Okay? So, he said, "For I have five brothers that he may testify to them, lest they come to this place of torment." All right, let's just stop it there. So, for sure, um, it's clear that there is the inward man and this inward man has its mind intact and yet it is without the outward man. Let's look at another text in this regard. Acts and chapter 2. He was describing the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And then he quoted a psalm that gave us an understanding of the revelation of scriptures about what happens without our what happens without our outward man or without our physical bodies. In acts 2 and in verse 24 it says whom God raised up lose the pains of death because it was not possible that he should be held by it. So acts 2:24 is talking about the Lord Jesus that God raised him up after he had lost the pains of death because he was it was not possible for him to be held by death. Then now I want you to notice verse 25 was for David says concerning him I forsaw the Lord always before my face is at my right hand that I should not be shaken. Therefore my heart rejoice my tongue was glad my flesh will rest in hope. Now pay attention to verse 27. For you will not leave my soul in a nor will you suffer your only want to see corruption. Corruption is a reality of the body that saying your body is going to see decay. For you have made known to me the ways of life. I have made me full of joy in your presence. So he's saying that there is this reality of one's soul going to Hades and one's body not being subject to corruption or not being condemned left to corruption. Peter is going to interpret text from verse 29 and he says let me speak freely to you of the patriarch David that is both dead and buried. So his outward man is dead and buried and his tomb is with us till this day. Therefore being a prophet and knowing that God has sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his body according to the flesh he will raise up the Christ to sit on the throne. He David for seeing this spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ that is soul and in this case soul is talking about the inward man in his entirety not his mind was not left in Hades nor did his flesh his outward man see corruption. All right, brothers and sisters, I hope at this point we can clearly see that the inward man is an ongoing reality without the outward man even though it's not the design and expectation of God. And in his ongoing reality, it is described as having a mind. It could remember, it could recollect exact details, etc. We see memory at play. Abraham told him remember showing that memory is one aspect of the mind. It could reason. They were communicating. So reasoning is another aspect of the mind. We'll come to all of those different aspects of the mind. But clearly we are not out of place to think of the outward man as a body with a brain and the inward man as a spirit with a mind. It is the description that we have from scripture. So when we think of the inward man, the inward man is not without the mind. Now if we bring it back to the believer, the believer's inward man is fused with Christ. So by nature our spirit is just like God, just like Christ. But yet that spirit has a mind which may not be renewed or may not have been changed in understanding, may not be enlightened about the realities of its nature. It's like a human being that thinks his body is like a dog and so walks and functions like that not knowing he can stand upright etc. Maybe he was raised up as a feral child. All of these are things we'll start to explore next. But I hope we have defended that point that we want to build on that you can think of yourself biblically as one who has a body with a brain and one who has a spirit with a mind and this has very serious implications for our growth and our walk in God's purpose. See you on the next one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your [music] questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. [music] Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media [music] handles at Pllearose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
