---
title: "Our Righteous Nature in Christ (Part 5)"
date: 2026-06-19
tags: [podcast, pleros]
url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kkuc5I4gUqk"
type: solo
---

# Our Righteous Nature in Christ (Part 5)

## Introduction to the Pleros Podcast

Welcome to Pleros Podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it.

Welcome back to the Pleros Podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Now, we're continuing our study on our righteous nature in Christ.

## Review: External and Internal Realities of the New Life

And what we have established already as we have been studying this is that the newness of life which we have been brought into via redemption by our faith in what Christ has done, that new life that we have been brought into includes external and internal realities. The new life we're talking about is not only something within us. Whenever we talk about the newness of life or the life of God that we have, we could put all our focus and attention on what is internal, which is fine, but that life is also what is external.

And we saw a good number of texts tell us about entering into life. Matthew 7:14, Matthew 19:16, you see Matthew 25 talking about eternal life prepared for. So, the life that we have to enter into compared with eternal damnation prepared for those who don't believe. We also saw all our texts like John 5:24 that speak about death and life as domains where we can transition from. So, he says in John 5:24, "He that hears my words believes on him that sends me has everlasting life and shall not come into judgment but has passed from death to life." So, you have changed domains, you have moved from death into life. So, on one hand they are speaking of life as a possession, something that one has as an individual. On the other hand, they're speaking about life as a place, a world, a domain.

So, there are external and internal realities to the life of God. And we have switched attention on the podcast from looking at external realities of the life of God to internal realities of the life of God. Earlier, we were looking at things like healing as an external reality, even though it's personal and in some sense internal, but we saw it in that way because we saw that in the life of God, immortality is available, but will be effected at the end. But today, we have healing available and can be effected right now. We also saw preservation where incorruption is available to matter, but will be effected at the end by the Lord Jesus. And preservation within a corrupt and sick cosmos is yet available to us today. We also saw favor in the newness of life where there's the internal operation of favor by the spirit of God in us, but also very heavily, there's the external operation of favor by the ministry of angels.

## Switching to Internal Realities

Now, with that in mind, after we've seen the external realities of the new life that we have in Christ, we are switching attention to the internal realities of this life that God has brought us to. So, the internal realities of this new life, you can see from Romans chapter 6 when it says we are to walk in the newness of life. His attention was not even on external realities at this point. We only used the text to expand on the entire picture of how life is described in the New Testament text particularly or in the Bible entirely. But we want to focus on Romans 6 itself, its focus is on realities that are internal, on internal realities.

You'll notice immediately after I said in verse 4, even so we should walk in the newness of life, verse 5 tells us, "If you have been united together in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall be in the likeness of his resurrection." So, there's a reality we have shared in the state of death that we are now supposed to share a reality in life right now. Then, verse six says, "Knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves of sin." You can see all of these are not external realities. The old man is talking about the nature we used to have on the inside before. So, he's talking about our spirit man changing from death to life, our spirit moving from being in the flesh to being of God. These are internal realities. We are no longer slaves of sin.

And it's on that premise he will now say later on in verse 12, "Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body that it should obey it in its lust, and do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness." So, there was a time we used to present our members as instruments of unrighteousness or uncleanness. On the inside, our nature was unclean, was unrighteous. You see Romans 6:19 say that, "I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh." For just as you presented your members, talking about our nature, the way we used to be, as our makeup, you may also say our members. Members, they're just the loose parts, useful parts of the physical body, but he's speaking now in a spiritual sense. What we were made up of spiritually. The body of sin is the idea from which he now says members of that body. Romans 6 mentioned body of sin, so that body of sin has now been changed to a body of righteousness. Talking about our spirit state, he says, "You should not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness" in verse 13, but verse 19 says, "You used to present your members as slaves of uncleanness and of lawlessness." So, he's describing the same thing. Uncleanness, lawlessness, unrighteousness, they are describing the same reality.

## Righteousness as the Primary Internal Reality

So, they are internal realities to the newness of life that we have in Christ. And primary to the internal realities is righteousness. So, when he tells us the old man is gone, you are no longer a slave of sin, what he starts pointing our attention to is the fact that we are now righteous. Another way he describes this is that we are alive to God. We are not dead in sin. We are alive to God. We are righteous. So, righteousness, we would say, is the primary internal reality of the new life that we have in Christ. Again, righteousness is the primary internal reality of the new life that we have in Christ.

## Putting On the New Man

Another text that has made it very clear that righteousness as a matter of our nature is Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 22-24. In talking about this old man versus what you would now call the new man in Ephesians 4 from verse 22, it says that you put off concerning your former conversation, the old man. He's saying, your nature used to be the old man, Romans 6:6, and you used to put it on. What does that put on mean? It's exactly what Romans 6:19 was saying. You used to present yourselves and your members as slaves of uncleanness. So, you used to put on the old man on your mind.

Now, if you recall when we saw the mind of man, we saw the hidden man developing the inner man. So, Paul is explaining that there was a time you used to put on in your hidden man, which is on your mind, the hidden man of your mind or the hidden man of your heart, used to put on the old man on that part of you. You used to present yourself in that place before, Romans 6:19. Now, he's saying, put off. No longer do that putting on of the old man because the old man is gone. Now, your nature is changed. Put off concerning your former conversation, the old man, which grows corrupt according to deceitful lust.

Then verse 23 says, and be renewed. So, don't just put it off. Change what is there. Put something new there. Don't just leave it clean. And be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And if you recall, spirit of the mind is still talking about the inner man. It's talking about this invisible part that brings forth visible realities. Change what used to be on this part of your mind, in your inner man. Be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on the new man, which is created after God in righteousness and holiness of truth. Now, some texts would have in righteousness and true holiness. Some texts would have in true righteousness and holiness, but I believe if you check most accurately, we are better served by reading it as in righteousness and holiness of truth, because the noun happens to be what is used there.

So, it says we are to put on the new man. That means that's our nature now. And that's because in Ephesians chapter two and in verse one, he had explained that we have changed from who we used to be. In Ephesians 2 and verse 1, it says, "And you he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked." So, we were once in a state of death in our spirits, remember? And now our spirit has now been made alive. Same thing in Romans 6 and 11, right? Or 6 and 10 and 11. You know, verse 11 says, "Likewise, reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin and alive to God." So, we were first dead in sin, but now we are dead to sin. We have completely left the reign under realm of death and sin. Now, we are alive to God. And we can say we are life in God.

## One New Man Created in Christ

This same truth, where we were dead but now we have been made alive, is what leads to this result of one new man. You see that in Ephesians 2 and verse 15. It says, "Having abolished in his flesh, the enmity." Talking about between Jews and Gentiles, that is in the law of commandments contained in ordinances, so as to create in himself one new man. So, this new man was created in Christ in the work that he did. Created in himself one new man from two. So, the new creation was created in the redemptive work of Christ in the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus.

By the time he now tells you who has been created a new man, and how do we know who has been created a new man? 2 Corinthians 5:17, if any man be in Christ, is a new creation. Old things have passed away, all things have become new. So, if any man be in Christ, you are a new creation. And that word in Christ means by the spirit you have been baptized into Christ. 1 Corinthians 12:13, Ephesians 4:4-6. 1 Corinthians 12:13 says, by one spirit we have been baptized into one body, whether Jew or Greek, whether slave or free, and have all been made to drink into or of one spirit. At the point where we exercise faith in Christ, by the spirit we are baptized into one body. Ephesians 4:4 will say, there is one body, one spirit, just as you are called in one hope of your calling. One body, one spirit, you are called in one hope of your calling. The next verse, verse 5, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. So, we are saying that as a result of that faith we have in Christ, we are baptized by the spirit into Christ or into his body.

Now, in Ephesians chapter 4, he's saying that we should put on the new man. Again, on our mind, you are putting on who you already are. Now, putting it on on your mind. You can't put it on on your spirit. That's who your spirit is. 1 Corinthians 6:17, you are already one spirit with the Lord. 2 Corinthians 5:17, you are already a new creation. So, you are not trying to be one in your spirit, but you are putting that truth on your mind. Put on the new man, which is created after God in righteousness. So, this new man is created according to after God being the prototype in righteousness and holiness of truth.

## Righteousness as a Nature vs. Righteousness as Justification

Okay, we have established, I think, sufficiently that there is such a thing as a new nature that we have in Christ, and that nature can't primarily be described as a righteous nature or one of the truths of the nature we have inside. It's a righteous nature. We have a righteous nature in Christ. So, when we speak about having the divine nature, it's a complete one, for we are partakers of divine nature. We are plainly in our that we have a righteous nature is one of the things.

Then, I will look at other things in our nature. We could say we have a supernatural nature. Even from righteousness, there's still something else we are going to see, but we'll leave that till later. But, one thing is crystal clear, we have a righteous nature in Christ. We have a righteous nature in Christ.

Now, but we need to answer some concerns about righteousness. First, we even need to know what is righteousness. But, second, we understand when we read the epistles particularly that there is this view of righteousness as justification. With the idea of being made right, being rendered non-guilty or innocent or just. Notice I said different things there. Being made right is different from being declared to just or being declared innocent or without guilt. And that concept of justification can be a lot if it's not well explained or we can start to debate what righteousness mean in different contexts if we do not clearly explain how righteousness is to be seen as justification different from how righteousness is to be seen as a nature. Yet, at the root, both of them are connected.

And so, I want us to start today because again, the time seems to run a bit, but I wanted to make some things clearer in this episode that we can build on. But, this what I want us to realize. When we speak about righteousness, we have a fundamental question to answer. What is righteousness? Righteousness itself is not a thing because righteousness is essentially a description. If someone says that is righteous, someone is simply saying that is right. So, righteous is something that is right. Both of them in that sense are serving like adjectives. That person did the right thing. That person did the righteous thing. What is right? And what is right is kind of empty. How do you know what is right? What is a thing that is right? Is there a quality that makes something right?

Now, one of the views like I've said in some other episode is the idea that whatever God says is right is right. But, that itself doesn't answer the question, because is it right because God says it or it is right in himself? And so, it requires that God says it for it to be right. If he says it's right because he says it before it is right, so things are not right in their own regard, but because they are said, viewed by God to be right. That's going to be problematic as you can already tell.

So, when we say what is right, because righteousness is something being right, what is right on God's standpoint? The next episode would help us see it better, because it's quite some details to unpack, and it's with seeing what righteousness is that we can understand why righteousness as justification and righteousness and in nature are connected. Then, we know how to think about self as righteous as a status. I'm righteous and I'm righteous as a nature. I'm righteous in Christ as a status, and I'm righteous as a nature, because they are two important views of righteousness. I'm righteous as a status is different from I'm righteous as a nature. Both of them are important, and we're going to be getting into it in the very next episode as we understand what righteousness itself is.

## Closing

For now, thank you. God bless you, and fulfill God's purpose. See you on the next one.

We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleros.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, His purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pleros community channel on WhatsApp. And follow us on all our social media handles at pleros_org. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in His purpose.