---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 12)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vIHoBQR1WNg
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 12)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, another episode of the Pleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. We've established that God's purpose can only be known by revelation. He himself has to reveal this to us and therefore the only source we can trust for the revelation of his purpose is the objective and direct source of his revelation. So God can talk to people and we know that. But this personal revelation is always fraught with subjectivity in a way that is direct primary authorized validated revelation of himself which is the written word is not fraught with. So we can rest and trust the written word as God's objective and direct revelation in a way that personal revelation cannot be trusted. even though it doesn't make them nonvaluable. In fact, they are very valuable. If you arrest your faith in God's word um and you make it the foundation of your persuasion, you should be um wise enough to handle personal revelation and put them in their rightful place as you walk in God's will for your life. So, I'm by no means speaking against personal revelation. um God speaking today not at all but I'm showing us what the word of God and God himself expects of us in how we view and understand him and his will for our life. So what does God's word say God's purpose is? He calls it sunship, right? Ephesians 1:9, Ephesians 15. What does sunship mean? It means to be God's child and God's heir. Romans 8 and verse 15-17. Being God's child, we are called to fellowship with him and to walk in his nature and character, which is a reality that we are meant to that we are to maintain, right? You maintain fellowship with God. You maintain a walk in his nature and character. Um, those things on their own do not give us any goal to go after. They don't give us any clear sense of pursuit. They don't give us any um sense of accomplishment, fulfillment, which are things we are yet designed with. But when we speak about being hearers of God, then we enter into arena of accomplishment, goals, purpose in the sense of something set before you to do. There's purpose and sense of what God said before him that he wants which is sunship. But now when we talk about being of God, there is what you are to do. There's what you are to fulfill. There's what you are to accomplish. And is in that light that we have been making quite some emphasis on being hairs of God. You recall that as an air of God we have said there are two assignments you have. Understanding the word hairs claronomous means someone who has been assigned a lot. A claros a lot to assigned a lot. Um there are two things God has assigned you to do. He has assigned to you a natural assignment. It's very very clear in his word. Um you know anyone speaks down on what you do in the natural is going to be your loss if you buy it because God's word is quite clear that he has given you things to do in the natural. So this is not like trying to whine in motivationally which people can do but I'm talking from a standpoint of I'm talking philosophically like if you are studying and theologically like if you are studying God's word to find out what his purpose is what you have to do in the natural what you have in your hands to do natural is his allotment to you that he expects to unfold into all that he wants to see fulfilled through you. So this is just Bible right. Um I can understand the concern that it can the lines can be blurred um with personal ambition and desires, competition and so on and so forth. Fine. That's a challenge that is at play. Interesting even for spiritual assignment that happens as well because there's a tendency maybe you're looking over your shoulders to other people or looking to decide what someone else is doing and sometimes you can see a spirit and here of competition people can have when it comes to natural assignment as well. These are just tendencies because we are in a broken world where the influence of sin and flesh is at play. But this should not um this should not make us deny the things that are readily true in God's word. You have a natural assignment which you should take very seriously and even in fact your natural assignment is going to take a bulk of your time over and above your spiritual assignment for most people. Now there will be those um who by design of their responsibilities would spend really a whole lot more time in their um spiritual assignment than their natural one even though they they still should do their natural assignment as Paul encouraged setting ourselves as examples for others right so there is this understanding we need to have we shouldn't think of what we do in the natural in a way as um not of God but then there's our spiritual as I've said we must hold as priority as a matter of its value. Even if we are unable to give it that time that we have to give to our natural assignment yet because of the priority we um place on it, we will give it the dedication that it requires. So maybe on a daily basis you have to all lot 2 hours or thereabouts for your spiritual assignments because you value it as that important. You will be dedicated to it yet you're going to spend like some 7 8 9 hours on your natural assignment and you shouldn't do that feeling oh man I'm doing something bad. No you are doing all of God's will. You are being awesome. You just have to learn to be dedicated. We'll get to all of that later. They are some of the things we'll build on when we get there. I just want to tie the knot like on our spiritual assignment. And when we do that, we have kind of like covered um the entire scope of what God's purpose is. Right? So I just want to ensure that I leave no stone unturned in ensuring that you are fully persuaded about your spiritual assignment. Now for spiritual assignment, I said the same word lot which is a portion usually assigned to someone is used for ministry in acts 117 and 25. And that word lots is used parallel to the word pat meus in um acts 8:21 for example. Interesting the other text where you see lot and part meos or meice one of the words used alongside one another. I think Colossians 1 uses that way. Colossians 1 I think 14 12 actually. I think it's Colossians 1:12. So you see this use of lot and part side by side. And I was emphasizing that to show you the consistent use of part relative to our place as believers in ministry in the body of Christ. Like in 1 Corinthians 12:27 which I said the surrounding context of that particular text is um very strongly ministry related. Then maybe more clearly Ephesians chapter 4:16 it says each part is doing a share to bring about the growth of the body and the share that each part is doing their own individual share no doubt is about ministry because Ephesians 4:12 is what unfolds from 13 to 16 and in from 13 to 15 now I said Ephesians 4:12 which has three details right perfecting of saints leads to work of ministry leads to the fin of the body of Christ unfolds in verses 13 to 15 um 16 rather but from 13 to 15 we see the explanation of the perfecting of the saints then verse 16 then shows the work of ministry this whole body of Christ that is all of us are joined to Christ is because people are supplying that which joins the ligament and they are supplying is by the federal working when each part is doing a share so each of us are a part we have our share to do supply the ligament and more people are joined we make up the entire body of Christ which causes the growth of the body in the fin of servant So you are a part with a share. In fact, I would like you to say say I'm a part of the body of Christ with a share that has been allotted to me. You know that word share is the word metron. And it's quite interesting because the idea of metron has to do with like measurement when it comes to a land. So is exactly what has been measured out for you to do. Right? There's what the lord wants you to do. Now I was showing as well from Ephesians 4:7 that if you are debating Ephesians 4:16 which you had no right to the text is pretty clear you cannot debate Ephesians 4:7 that was to 111 because Ephesians 4:7 says to each of us he didn't say to all of us so that some of us can hide behind others in that situation he didn't say um to some of us so that some of us some of the ones will be excluded. He says to each of us in a manner that each individual cannot escape. Each of us have grace given unto us according to the measure of Christ. You have grace. That's why he spoke about the effectual working by which each part does a share. Because that term effectual working is often used for the grace of God which is like an extra working despite your own work. You know, so you have grace given unto you according to the measure of the gift of Christ. And the gift of Christ in question verse 8, it tells us is the gift that he gives to men to humanity. And we saw that he gave this gift after he descended and then ascended. And the gift he gave verse 11 is what he calls the apostles, prophet, evangelist, pastor and teachers which are essentially leadership ministry terms. So whilst there's the general reality of ministry, he uses in this context leadership ministry terms and he says you have grace for leadership in ministry. So it gets even serious but I don't think we can delve into that fully at this point in our study. So you are not excluded from ministry and even more leadership in ministry. Now what I want us to get to is the text he quotes from when he says when he ascended on high he led captivist captive he gave gifts to men. That's the book of Psalm 68. I want us to look at that quickly. Then we come back and look at one more text. We wrap it there. Then the next episode I'll be talking about what do you do now about God's purpose. What exactly do you do now about God's purpose? But go to Psalm 68 and verse 16 to 18 I believe. I'll just go to verse 18 immediately. Psalm 68:18. It says, "You have ascended on high. You have led capt captivity captive. You have received gifts amongst men." If you read the context, it's talking about Yahweh, you know, and that's having an encounter with them on Mount Si after he had led captivity captive. They were captives under Egypt and he has now made them his own. You can see has made them his own captives. So slaves in Egypt are now slaves of God which we can say is true freedom. So you have led captivity captive and you have received gifts amongst men. Even you have received gifts amongst men even from the rebellious from is italicized there even the rebellious because the idea is like you give gifts unto men because the gifts are towards men. So even the rebellious that the lord might dwell there. So here I would debate the receiving phrase um word as fully reflecting the intention of the text because he's saying he led them captive. He received them as gifts to be amongst men. That's just the idea. He took them from their captivity to be his gift amongst men even amongst the rebellious that the Lord might dwell them. So the focus is not as much on taking the gift from men or from the rebellious is that he has received the gift with the responsibility to be amongst men. And that sense of responsibility is seen in the next verse. Blessed be the Lord who daily loads us. You'll notice the with benefit there is italicized and italicized words as translators have repeatedly stated are not in the original manuscripts. They are added because they believe it's beneficial. The reason why they put them in italics is that they are not forced. So you can check how it reads without them. In this case it reads very well without them because it knows us is with a sense of a burden and responsibility. So those who have been saved, the captivity that have been made his captives are now made gifts amongst men. He received them to be gifts amongst men, even among the rebellious that the Lord might dwell there. He's showing the calling of Israel to serve as priests amongst all the nations. Now we go to so many texts on this particularly from Exodus 19 to see where the event happened at Sinai where they were called to be a kingdom of priests. Um for once of time in this particular study we won't do that. So but just to be clear when that text is coded on it says you have grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ which is his gift to humanity then is your role towards all people. Now I want us to wrap up with this text a very clear text which is 2 Corinthians 5 from verse 17 downwards. All of us have a part in ministry. 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 17 downwards. He says, "If any man be in Christ," that's the man that has believed the gospel, who has been put in Christ by the spirit. He says he's a new creation, all things have passed away. All things have become new. And all things which have become new are of God who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ and has given us the ministry of reconciliation. So you cannot miss that. The man who is a new creation who has all things new who has been reconciled to God is the very same one who is said to be given the ministry of reconciliation. So you have the ministry of reconciliation. You cannot escape that. And that ministry we are told in verse 19 is about the word of reconciliation. So let's just wrap up saying this. Say I have the ministry of reconciliation which is to minister the word of reconciliation. I have a spiritual assignment and it is priority as a matter of value. I place priority on my spiritual assignment. All right, we'll catch you on the next one where we'll be looking at what do I do about the assignments given to me by God. &gt;&gt;
