---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 1)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EWXgKv1Eo9Q
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 1)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome to the Pllearus podcast. We give you your daily dose of God's word to transform your life to fulfill God's purpose. I believe that you've been blessed if you have been following because today we are switching on to another topic if we may say so but within the same line of what we have been examining. Now, if you remember, we started out by looking at the place of the gospel in our lives, which is that the gospel is the truth. And then we moved on from there and saw the reality of God's purpose. We didn't just see the truth about the world, what it is, why it's the way it is, how we are saved from the contradiction in the world, but we had to answer this important question of purpose. Why are we here? What's the reason that we exist? what's the reason for our lives etc etc. So in answering the question of purpose, we saw from Ephesians 1 particularly verse 9:5 that God's purpose is sunship. It's what he likes is what he wants and is what he had determined or purpose to have. We saw sunship means to be God's child and God's heirs. And being the child of God is that you have his nature, you have his life, you have his character which is a call to fellowship with him. but also a call to walk in that nature and character that we have. When you say well God made me to be his child then he has called me into fellowship with him which strengthens me to walk in that nature and character that is of him. But then there is the other part of the equation when we speak about God's purpose which is we're hes of God very important. So as hes of God, people who who have who God has allotted things to as hes of God, we have certain assignments has been given to us and our study has helped us to see that we have a natural assignment and a spiritual assignment. So so far so good. The next thing we had to resolve was how do we carry out this assignment or how do we pursue these assignments that we have in God's purpose. So we examined it both for our natural assignment and spiritual assignment. For a natural assignment, we saw five things are involved in the pursuit of God's purpose. We start where we are. 1 Corinthians 7:17 downwards. We start where we are. We take advantage of opportunities that come to us. We use the world as we desire without misusing it. That's number three. Then number four, we are open to the leading of the spirit. So across everything we do, one two three, we are still open to the leading of spirit. Number four. Number five, we are maximally productive. That's something that God's word is very keen about relative to our natural assignment. We're instructed to be fully productive, to be maximally productive. All right. Your pursuit of your natural assignment. Those five things are critical to your pursuit of your natural assignment. For our spiritual assignment, we saw five things as well. Interestingly, I realized that in the last episode I made a mistake on the fifth one, but I'll correct it today. So I was saying we keep growing until disciplehip but I meant to say we keep growing onto leadership. I don't know if you picked it up in the last episode but I'll repeat what we saw in the in our spiritual assignment. Our postures of our spiritual assignment has five things. Number one is we commit to disciplehip. You get plucked plugged in to disciplehip. That means you commit to disciplehip in the local church. I've spoken about the importance of the local church. I've not going to say so much about that but we'll get to that soon. maybe likely in this new subject matter that we're examining. So number one, you commit to disciplehip. Number two, you go. Go just means you go out to take initiative to reach people. You go and reach people. What you do when you reach them is what we see next. But you have to go and reach people. And what we do when we reach them is to preach the gospel, publicize the gospel. So every means of publicizing the gospel is something that we must take advantage of. We don't hold back. We don't shrink back. We must we must seek to put out the message. That's the third thing. The fourth thing we saw is to disciple people that receive the message. And that's why I encourage that as we use all means of publicity. We must still ensure we have a plan of disciplehip where one-on-one preaching usually serves best to do that. Okay? So we can disciple people. And last fifth thing is we keep growing onto leadership. So I didn't have the time to talk about that but very clearly in God's word there's the desire for every believer to grow into leadership is part of God's purpose. You see in first prayer verse one he said if any man desires the office of a bishop he desires a good work and he was talking as as openended as possible to Timothy in that if any person desires the office the responsibility of a bishop. Now the interesting about the word bishop is that it simply means a leader. So I know as I say bishop now you might have another thing on your heart today in our world there tends to be the regarding of a person as a bishop as higher rated than one being a pastor. If one if one is starting out in the leadership in church the person might be called a pastor but let's say the person is growing more later the person is called the bishop but this is not the mindset of the scriptures at a later time we'll probably see that. So in God's word when you are called a bishop he's the same as being a pastor he's the same as being an elder as well but in our world today is different as long as we understand basic order of the church we might say well the labels are not so much of a big deal the only issue here is you must understand the labels as the audience did and when you're reading the text you mustn't be reading your own opinion about what the author is saying and what the audience understood into the text. So when you see bishop the word was general word for someone that is an overseer person is overseeing something. So it's like the role of a supervisor. It could be a leader a manager even in the secular field. It was also used for those with those in governmental authority who have oversight over a given region. It just simply means a leader. So when first priest says if anyone desires the office of a bishop we will simply say if anyone desires the office of a leader he desires a good work. And the reason for this is it is it is the reasoning of the scriptures that we all as we carry out our spiritual assignments are meant to grow into leadership. And is why we find that different people became leaders in the church. I don't know if you noticed in Filimon for example was leading the church in his house. By the time you go to Romans 16 you see all kinds of people who were faithfully carrying out the work of ministry who had become leaders of churches in their house. what today we might call cells or unit churches or house fellowships. So people were growing into leadership in the church. They were taking responsibility. They were not just consumers. They were participants in the mission of the Lord Jesus. So a church was not designed such that they were just consuming. They were just receiving but they were not giving anything like you are likely not giving anything to Coca-Cola. If you take Coca-Cola that is or I don't know any other example any product you are just consuming the product but you don't there is nothing more for you to do it doesn't the product is not demanding anything of you you are simply consuming the product for your good but that is not the way it is with the gospel so receiving the gospel is you being a consumer of the gospel onto salvation also you're supposed to come to church and consume the message onto growth disciplehip and that's fantastic but if the gospel has it effect on your life It's meant to translate into your participation, your commitment to the gospel in your spiritual assignment all the way to leadership. And it's something that must be in the order of your time for the week. Your participation in your spiritual assignment and the growth that would bring until you are found leading other people. It's important that we have this vision in our mind because that's the vision of God's word. It's the Ephesians 4 vision where he says each of us have grace according to measure of Christ's gift. And he said the gift that Christ gave is the gift he gave at the resurrection. And he said that gift is the apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastor and teachers, which simply means the leaders of the church. So he said he gave the leaders of the church and he gave them for the perfecting of the saints. By the time you get to verse 16, the saints who are perfected are expected to now function in that same responsibility of leadership towards other people. So there's this cycle of leadership that is meant to be happening in the church. You have a natural assignment that unfolds from wherever you begin from to opportunities that come to you to things you desire that you pursue to whilst being open to the leading of the spirit and being maximally productive. But you also have a spiritual assignment that begins with committing to disciplehip going out reaching people publicizing the message when you reach them. So the first step is go right you you can't just go and when you go you you when you have to go to preach. So that's what I would say. You have to go just go and meet people, start a conversation, then publicize the gospel. If it's oneonone, you can go and publicize it in other ways. You can even use other forms of media. You can share it through your phone, etc. But there has to be the call to disciplehip when we preach the gospel. Otherwise, we are not fully fulfilling the mission that the Lord has given us. So, you commit to disciplehip. You go, you preach, you disciple, and you end up leading. That's the way a spiritual assignment unfolds. You commit to disciplehip. Number one. Two, you go or reach people. Three, you preach or publicize the message. Four, you disciple the people will receive you. And five, you end up leading people. Now to introduce what we are going to with what we have laid down, we look at how to fulfill how to fulfill God's purpose. Now you might be like, but you just said pursuing God's purpose. out of a few gospels. There's a difference. So what we have done is to say this is exactly how God's purpose plays out. That's what I wanted to see in the pursuit. The journey maybe I could have called it that of God's purpose. So this is how it plays out. This is how the journey unfolds. You start from here in your natural assignment. You start from here in your spiritual assignment. You reach this point eventually. You reach that point and eventually for both assignments, right? So you can end up like a gas. Um, you can end up like an Arasmos. You can end up So, Arasmos was working in the government if I'm correct now. That's Romans chapter 16. And yet he was faithfully serving the church. Gas was notably wealthy and yet he was serving the church. Erastos, I kept thinking Arasmos was a mistake. So, Arasto, you know, he was a treasurer of a city. You could end up like an Onisimos. Onimos was a slave, runaway slave, then he got saved. I think in the history of the church leader became a bishop in Ephesus if I'm correct. There is this journey that you are supposed to go through. But that journey doesn't tell us how you fulfill it because the journey itself requires that you are capable of doing of carrying out. Let me use an example and that's where that's what we'll probably wrap up with. So let's assume someone says your purpose is to carry this this maybe something very heavy. Let's use like two bags of cement. This quite heavy, I should imagine. I don't know how it is in other places, but at least in Nigeria, it's quite heavy. So, you have to carry it for a distance of say 500 m. Still quite a distance. I'm not really sure it's easy on anybody generally to do that without dropping it. You have to carry one on one hand, the other on the other, and all the way 500 m journey. If that's the goal, you have to prepare to be able to do it. So you say, "Oh my god, I have to prepare if I'm going to be able to do this. Carry two bags and I'm not going to drop it at all." I mean, if I had to drop it, I could drag it and do all of that, but if I want, I have to go to the gym. I have to decide how strong I must be and reach that point to be able to do it. Now, this is how you fulfill the purpose. You know, the journey, you have to go through this 500 m journey, but I have to prepare myself to do it. And that's what the Lotto does in Luke 12:47. He that knows my will and does not prepare and do. So, it's not just to do, you must prepare. And that's why we're looking at how to fulfill. There's a preparation that makes possible the fulfillment of purpose. So knowing God's purpose and knowing how it goes, knowing how the journey is without being prepared, lacking the preparation that makes you fulfill it is going to be a difficult one. And that is the introduction to how to feel God's purpose. In the next episode, we start to see what exactly makes it possible for us to fulfill God's purpose. Catch you on that one. We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, [music] visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your [music] questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, [music] don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and [music] keep walking in his purpose.
