---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 16)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NoKl91QKS3s
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 16)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to another episode of the Plus podcast. This is still your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. There is nothing more fundamental than for a believer to recognize that they exist for God's purpose. Right? Our conviction, our philosophy, our theology, our worldview, our persuasion affects the whole of our life. Once we recognize that truth that we are here as a result of God and we have been redeemed by the work of the Lord Jesus Christ, then we have to answer that question. Why are we here? Which is God's purpose. And we have seen that a wholesome answer a more developed answer to that question is sunship. Sunship is compassing I'm sorry word and it entails the fact that we are children of God called to fellowship with our father relate with one another as siblings in different forms as well as to walk in our nature and character. But it also includes the fact that we have assignments to do. We have inheritance. We could think of the inheritance as God's spirit. We could think of the inheritance as the entirety of creation. But very personally, we should also recognize we have the inheritance of our natural assignment as well as our spiritual assignment. So we need to be ruthlessly focused and devoted on the assignments that God has given us to do. With all of that said about who we are and what we have been called by God to do. We are presently studying the mind of man. So we know God's purpose. We know the road map of his purpose. We have seen that. You could listen to the pursuit of God's purpose. We talks about the road map. How the journey of God's purpose unfolds. So we know his purpose. We know the road map of his purpose. But then we have the next phase which is how do we fulfill his purpose? Then we realize that we need strength that we have the direction does not mean we are doing the purpose. Walking the path without actually doing what you should do whilst you are there means you'll get to to the destination without any result. All right? So that's not going to be that's not going to be God's will. So it's important for us to understand that to bear the burden of God's purpose there is the need for disciplehip perfecting of saints. The challenge if there is no disciplehip of perfection of saints is that you could do all the actions do all the steps seem to be following the road map or even following the road map but you are doing it from the wrong heart from the wrong mind with the wrong spirit which means you are doing it out of selfishness out of your personal and selfish ambition and personal ambition is not always wrong. I'm sorry I even used that word but okay it depends on how you are speaking about it. Your personal ambition can be God's ambition but selfish ambition yeah that is all about self you know. So your personal ambition can be God's own ambition. And of course your personal ambition should be God's own ambition. You know you you could know the entire journey. You could be involved in the work. You could be aware of your assignment and inheritance. But you are doing it all from a wrong place which is unfortunate because we are judged not only for our actions but also for our motive, our heart, the state of our heart. And this is where disciplehip helps us to fix the state of our heart. Right? Now having a said all of that said that there is the need for us to see that if we need disciplehip we need the perfecting of the saints where does the growth or development in disciplehip happen and I talked about different terminologies we use like growing up spiritually spiritual growth can give us the sense that the growth happens in our spirit but really the growth happens on our mind because our spirit is in a perfect complete and divine state there is no improving or developing on our spirit you can't do more to the spirit of man than has already been done at salvation and that's why we are told that when we are joined to the Lord. We are one spirit with him. So the idea or the sense that there is something more to do to our spirit is not right. When we think about ourselves as believers now, but our spirit is not all there is to us. If we want to think about ourselves as humans in a wholesome manner, then we would pay attention to Paul's description in 2 Corinthians 4 and verse 16 where he spoke about man as inward man and outward man. And I hope you recall that we described the inward man as a spirit with a mind also has a body with a brain. That's that's the description we used. I don't want you to stretch that description beyond what is intended because on our mind is both natural and spiritual information or we could say physical and metaphysical information or we could say natural and philosophical information depends on how I think maybe the best way to pass across the idea would probably let's just use natural and spiritual information. So we have both happening on our mind. For example, if someone is teaching you science or commerce or arts, what they are teaching is purely natural and secular. There is no evil there. It's just the way things are in nature. But underneath the basic teaching of those things would always be the philosophical, metaphysical, spiritual persuasion of the person. So if the person holds a Christian worldview, an atheistic worldview, an agnostic worldview, a pantist or pantistic worldview, whatever worldview they hold is going to seep through what they are teaching you in the natural or the secular. We our worldview and our persuasion is always present in our speaking, in our thinking, in our engagement. So it's going to show up invariably. Now you know people can be so developed and refined to put it to its limits which is very important. For example, in school settings, we are just supposed to be taught what is natural and secular and then our beliefs are more of from the family and then our religious institutions, church and believers in Christ Jesus and what other organizations as may be for others. But one thing you must be aware of is that it is important that people limit their spiritual, philosophical, metaphysical persuasion when they are teaching natural and secular things. But it would at least you know some way or the other is going to sip through that which they are saying. It should be limited but it's going to find a way to sip through notwithstanding. If you are parenting whatever persuasion you want your child to hold it's on you personally and that's the biblical position. So let's develop that and proceed further. But when we talk about man as a spirit with the mind, our focus has been on the aspects of man's mind. We have been looking at the aspects of man's mind. And I'm going to rush up because we have already seen this over and again. We have seen seven aspect of man's mind and this helps us to understand why we do the things we do why we act the way we do and we have made a conclusion that our actions are a matter of our consciousness rather than a matter of our knowledge or conviction. So we don't do what we know, we do what we are conscious of. But remember what led us to that conclusion. We saw seven aspects of the mind. The first is our reasoning. And you remember in Luke 24:45 Jesus opened their nos mind that they may comprehend the scripture. That was a matter of reason that they may put together the scripture. So this was reasoning. They were putting details together. They were thinking through a matter. But there's a second aspect of the mind which is our memory. Because it's possible someone is reasoning on something and is undecided about it is thinking about it for a while. So everything that goes into our reasoning goes into our memory whether short-term or long-term some of them we forget other ones are retained longer than the other. Then there is a third part of our mind which is our will. So we can agree. So after the evidence is shown to you can be like wow I see it now I agree. Some can see the evidence and still disagree because maybe they are requiring more evidence you know and like no I don't believe that. This happens even when we talk about believe in God. You find people despite the sufficient evidence as I believe and scripture does that God has provided of himself, they would still refuse to accept that evidence requiring more than what has been provided. And we can talk about the honesty and dishonesty of that because when we compare it to the evidence we accept scientifically, we might find that there's not there's no there's some intellectual dishonesty or inconsistency going on. But that is not our discussion here. For more on those type of things, keep checking out the pleos.org site where we are talking about particularly gospel answer series and particularly the critical version when it's up would address such matters there. Okay. But let's say someone that didn't believe in God, the evidence is presented, the person eventually sees like wow so it's true and the person accepts. So you are saying that something that began from his reasoning and was in his memory has now by his agreement his will become his or her conviction. But your conviction is one thing. Your actions do not come from there. You can know and act contrary to what you know. And this is so important. So we didn't get to get to open James the last time. Let's see what we can do this time around. James and chapter one and verse 21. James here says to lay aside all filness and superfl of wickedness and to receive with humility or meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. So the idea here is that when we receive God's word is like a seed planted on our heart that is meant to grow. It's meant to be watered is not meant to be choked. Is meant to be allowed that liberty of growth with patience now. So we are to receive the engrafted or implanted word which is able to save our souls. And again souls here is about our life. So if one has found himself living in a worldly manner, the word of God planted on his heart is able to save the person's life. But we could even take it to other things about our life which is the beauty of the word soul because it encompasses our life. It could be about the miraculous. It could be about healing and then the implanted word is able to save your soul. Now if you look at verse 22 he says be doers of the word not hearers only deceive yourself. Now ordinarily we tend to just think he's saying exercise your will to do something. But he's talking more about the entirety of a man's life. So the person's entire life is expressing the word. And this is not just an instance or moment of exercising your will. So if you are looking for the genuine result James is talking about is not by consciously exercising your will at a given moment. That is okay if you have to in a given circumstance that's fine. But if you are going to be a doer of the word it will be at times you are not even conscious of the need to do the word. Say you are just going your way working your job and then someone hurts you, offends you, says something to you, acts in a manner that is not righteous towards you. At that moment are you a doer of the word? You are not trying to do is you are just reacting. So is are you someone that will express the word? Are you someone that will do the word at that time? That would depend on what makes you do the word. Now look at what James says. He says be a doer not hearer deceiving yourself. What makes a man not a doer? What makes a man just a hearer? He says the person is deceiving himself. Paralogism which means is reckoning aside. The word logism is to reckon is reckoning aside himself. Reckoning aside. So reckoning is not knowing. The era knows. So you cannot say the era's problem is not knowing. is also not agreement. By the time we read downward, the hearer actually agrees with what he heard. The problem is reckoning is a completely different thing from knowing from agreeing from even conviction. So conviction is that you agree. You are you agree. Sometimes we mix up consciousness and conviction. Someone can genuinely be convinced. I am a new creation. But yet be conscious of something else. Be reckoning something else. We saw that in Romans chapter 6 as well. So let's jump because of our time. You could read the rest of James and read it all the way to 25 and see it yourself where he would describe that act of reckoning as parameo which is continuing with what you have heard. Standing beside what you have heard. But if you look at Romans 6 as well and vers 11 after Paul had told them you already know that you were baptized into Christ, you were baptized into his death. You already know that the body of sin is dead. You already know such and such. But in verse 11 it says likewise you also reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin. So is not know that you are dead. Is reckon that you are dead. You know that you are dead to sin. It says reckon that you're dead to sin. He will go further to say in verse 13, present your members not as instruments, I'm sorry, of unrighteousness, but present your members as instruments of righteousness. Romans 12 will say the same thing in verse one. He says to present ourselves as living sacrifice. Those who have the life of God, you know, living sacrifice, to present oursel as holy and acceptable to God. All of these things are our reality. The word present means we are standing beside. So we are simply affirming who we are as a result of what Christ has done. We are affirming. We are insisting on the reality of who we are as a result of what Christ has done. I am a new creation. I am a new creation. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to God. And that act of affirming who we are. That act of reckoning who we are is called renewing of the mind. That's what transforms us. Renewing of the mind is not the information itself. That enlightens our mind. And it's good. Ephesians 1 says we need to be enlightened. The eyes of understanding should be enlightened after salvation. But renewing of the mind is that constant refreshing that transforms us. So what gets transformed is this reckoning. This reckoning what we can call our consciousness. I'm sorry time has run so we can't even go into all the details. Don't worry we should be done with mind of man. That reckoning that consciousness is the big deal we said is what produce our emotions our reactions. You know many times you could be very intentional about acting in a particular way. That doesn't make you a dweller of the word. That's a good exercise of your will at the moment and it's fine. It's also can it trains you to act on the word next time. It's part of affirming who you are. You are sort of training yourself. It depends on where you are doing it from. But really what changes you is this reckoning, presenting, affirming of the new man that you are in Christ. This reckoning, this presenting, this affirming of this new man that you are in Christ. Because the flesh has done it damage. And there are things that you need to renew and you are to renew them particularly in your consciousness. This whole consciousness issue is what will lead us to our study on faith stand. Catch you on the next one. God bless you. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in [music] faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit [music] pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, [music] God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on [music] our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
