---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 14)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TzNOzfGVFv0
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 14)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Polaros podcast. I trust you're going to be blessed by God's word as you receive your daily dose of his word that transforms you to fulfill God's purpose. We've been looking at the mind of man. Today we are getting to a major part. By all means, I'm sure we've been looking at the mind of man because we have seen that we exist for God's purpose which is sunship to walk as his child as well as his heirs. We've also seen that there's a road map to following God's purpose. involves a daily life of devotion that strengthens us to walk in our nature and character and that also propels us to carry out our assignment both natural and spiritual. That road map exists about how we are meant to do all that the Lord wants us to do. But then we have the next challenge which is knowing the journey knowing the path does not imply that we are prepared to go that path. you are ill equipped them are going to fail fall on the way get tired and weary get burnt out no have you seen you should be aware you'd have read about people going on different kind of risky journeys for different reasons and dying on the way because I mean they shouldn't even be going on some of those journeys in the first place they are not equipped for it just humanly but maybe they could prepare who knows so but if you're going on a journey you'd better prepare so that you are going to be able to carry out the journey you could take some extra kegs of foil if you know there will be no foil on the way You could f your car to the brim then plan for some refueling on the way which I think is precisely how the Christian journey is. There's the foundational training disciplehip education that we need and there is yet the continuous training and education we need over and again to fail us as we go on that journey otherwise you know people weaken out and they fall by the way. Now having said all of that that growth that we need to fulfill God's purpose happens on our mind and that's because at salvation when we receive the spirit of sunship our nature is entirely changed exactly into that of Christ. We are one spirit with the Lord. We are one spirit with the Lord. We have his very nature. We have his very character and we should recognize that and walk in that nature and character of Christ that we have. So if our mind is the issue, it's therefore important that we study this reality of the mind. Of course, one of the things we did first is to see the reality of man as a whole where we can say man is spirit, soul and body which is man is spirit and body that is vital or man is spirit which is his major vitality as well as body. It all depends. We also saw man is inward man and outward man. 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 16. Man is inward man and outward man. And we could describe both sides of man as man is spirit with a mind and having a body with a brain would be a accurate way of describing that we at that point took advantage of the account the Lord gave us of Lazarus and the rich man to further impress that truth on our heart. Now with that in mind about how we see ourselves as believers we now zoomed in on the mind. I mean our spirit is unchanging. It just needs that expression through our minds. It's our minds that needs addressing. So what on our mind accounts for how we conduct ourselves. I'll just say this because it's on my heart to do that. We sometimes underestimate how much our minds was messed up before salvation. I know particularly you didn't have any big moral flaw before salvation. You tend to downplay how much you need to do on your mind. Even though descending people might see this stink in your character because you have just not worked on it and it could be very subtle where self is showing up in many areas where dependency on the spirit ought to show up. You're not talking about putting up a facade of false humility or anything like that but living out genuinely not out of the strength of the flesh or living out out of the strength of the spirit boldly confidently and usually different experiences mold us that way. If you grow up in certain context, certain backgrounds, maybe oppressive backgrounds, abusive backgrounds, not just at home, sometimes people's experiences in school could be oppressive and abusive and it could mold and form their mind that way. So that they start to replay it in their life without even knowing. When you do grow up in such context, it affects you. It affects your worldview. The things you read, the things you affect as true. The way people get subsumed in many things really affects their mind. Have you seen people affected by politics a lot? That happens almost every culture. People get so consumed by it just becomes everything they talk about. It's one sad when it's preachers. So all you just all you see some of them talk about is something political or the other. It's something you have to guard your heart about that your mind doesn't get consumed by the emotions of the world even as you still engage with the world. You have to still engage with the world nation. You have to stay engaged in business commerce. You have to engage in the workplace. You have to engage relationships etc. And we cannot get out of this world because of all the mess in it. We are meant to shine as light in it. So one of the things that we ought to do is to be able to recognize where we are lacking or lacking. Jesus called us to have what we could call an honest self introspection. It says to check for the log in your eyes before being concerned for the specking and others. be able to identify that I find that I'm lagging in this regard or in that regard so that you could work on it. You could fix it is more important than looking at other people and pointing out this and that. You really need to check yourself. You really, really, really need to. I'm telling you, I'm saying that for myself. So, I can tell you you should check yourself. Now, that said, what exactly goes on our mind that affects our life? Because many things happen on our mind. For example, I mentioned that natural information goes through our mind almost all the time. Whether we're talking about the science, physics, chemistry, biology of our world, natural information goes on there. But every time natural information is being communicated is almost inescapable that one way or another the metaphysical persuasion or spiritual persuasion behind the person speaking even if it's depending on what spiritual persuasion was what's the word programming to it is going to show up that is a fact. So it's going to show up in what it is saying. You must be careful that subtly you are always being affected by not just being informed of things in the natural but being affected by the spiritual disposition of the source that you are receiving from. Now with all of that said what happens on our mind? We are receiving natural information. We receiving spiritual information. How does it form and frame who we are? Well, first thing that happens on our mind is reasoning. We reason. First part of our mind. Anything that is said to you, the first thing you do is think about it. It doesn't automatically affect you. You think about it. That's what happens first. So there's the reason aspect of our mind. But then there's the memory aspect of our mind and then we said there's the conviction aspect what you agree with and disagree with of what you have heard and you have reasoned on. So when you hear things you reason on them and you agree or you disagree. Sometimes some people's reason are very weak fortunately and so they are easily they are gullible. They are easily accepting of things without thinking through is most unfortunate. for whatever reason you find them what they agree or disagree with changes a whole lot and very easily just per time that's not how things should be but you have things you agree with disagree with so that at the instance if someone should ask you about what your conviction is you don't need to have all of your reasoning present with you at the moment that is the basis of your conviction present with you at the moment to be able to say oh this is what I believe then someone actually have to maybe take a breath think about it a bit and then say well I haven't studied this and seen it this way this way that's why I arrived at this conclusion but that conclusion you hold is you can easily tell it at the moment because you have passed the face of just the reasoning on it you have arrived at the conclusion so this is so important that we understand our convictions affect us but how strongly do they affect us in Romans 6 we saw that it's possible for people to know agree with something hold as a conviction a particular truth and yet his effect on their work is not as it ought to be this is something that the Romans must have written to Paul about Christians in Rome and Paul had to address with them that you already know this. So how can you can start making excuses maybe because you are seeing a contradiction in your work. So he reaffirms what they know to be true but he now gave them an instruction. There was no instruction he gave them from Romans 6 and verse one all the way to verse 10. It was just a reminder. Do you not know? We know this. We know that until verse 11. Then he instructs them. He says likewise you also reckon yourself. So first time is instructing them that you miss the point. The point is not that you do not know. The point is there's a reckoning gap. So reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord. And is in that breath on based on that instruction he says therefore because of this do not let sin re your motor. But remember that again told us when you see the word therefore you should find out what it is therefore. So it's usually there to introduce a conclusion based on premises. So because I told you to record yourself therefore you shouldn't listen a motor body. If you're reckoning yourself, therefore you can trust sin will not reneal body. The next verse verse 13 says do not present your members as instrument of unrighteousness. You already know that you are there to see do not present. So knowing and reckoning or presenting are two different things. You could know but you might be presenting wrong. We are getting somewhere. That word reckoning logiz to take account. And when James will use the word James 1:21 there was a compound word that was used where the major word was loi when he says be you doers of the word not hearers only deceiving yourself we do the word he says when we are not deceiving ourselves and he used the word paralle there when he talks about deceiving yourself paralism means you are reckoning outside yourself so this is the point I'm making you can know something but you might not be reckoning it and reckoning is a completely different aspect of your mind from knowing knowing was settled for the Romans but reckoning was another aspect of their mind. That word reckon is also presenting. In Romans 12, that word presenting or reckoning is renewing your mind, refreshing your mind. What you already know, you are refreshing it on your mind so that you can be transformed. I do hope you get this point. And what we'll try to do in subsequent episode is to open up more instances of where this statement is made because we'll try to look at it as what Paul is teaching as faith stand. Once we settle that the mind has all these elements and I've still not shown you some things. So before we get to that, I might still do some episodes on the mind of man before we get to studying faith stand and we'll see even the Lord Jesus talk about it. We'll go to the Old Testament text probably see it from maybe Moses, Proverbs, couple of texts, even the Psalms. You are to reckon, you are to present, you are to affirm yourself. This part of the mind, we could call it the consciousness part of the mind. Now let me explain that you are convinced about something does not mean it's your consciousness. Let's face it before salvation you have reinforced certain beliefs and by beliefs I mean convictions remember the journey you have reason become your conviction and you have reinforced them some people have reinforced so much to themsel that they are angry people they will even tell you so much like they have reinforced this so strongly me I know myself I know myself I don't take blah blah blah blah blah I don't do this I don't do that they have reinforced the belief about themselves being angry people somehow I'm very like this I'll just do like this in this situation I'm very weak. Oh, ah, someone should do this. I'll just do that. They have a belief and you can hear it from their words. They are reinforcing it. The reinforcement of it is not the belief of it. The reinforcement of it is a reckoning of it. Is the presenting of it. And what it creates is a consciousness of it. They are now so conscious that is their faith on that matter that oh I am just like this. They are so strong in their faith. And if we could use a negative word, maybe we should, but let's use it this way about something so contrary to what is right, what is good and who they are in Christ. So with that reinforced belief, even when they find out they are new creations, they are love being in Christ, it doesn't mean that that conviction overwhelms the consciousness of the fact that they they think of themselves as angry people. They are going to act that way because that is what is stronger their consciousness. What they should do with their conviction is to pray, have a faith stand with that conviction until it overwhelms them. It becomes their consciousness that they may walk in it. We have so many text to look at on this since we have already broken the ice on it. On the next episodes, we are going to take more time to get into details of it, looking at more text, seeing what the Lord Jesus said, where the Lord just spoke about abundance of the heart, the mouth or the life flows speaks. We're going to see all of those details as we open up this matter further. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst [music] on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep [music] walking in his purpose.
