---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
---
Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. 

Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Blues podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We are looking at a very important subject matter which is the Eden man and we've already seen a number of things on this. 

We have taken us through the background that led up to this study. We have seen what God's purpose is for our lives. We have seen the road map of God's purpose. We've seen the need for growth to fulfill God's purpose. 

And that growth happens on our mind. We've also seen how growth happens exactly. is not just by receiving the knowledge of God's word but even more importantly by faith stand or reckoning of the word. Then what we are establishing on the subject of the Eden man is to show that when we speak about growth there's a particular reality we can say about us that we are referring to as growing. 

There's a particular aspect of our mind more exactly that that growth happens to. So I'm just going to give um a brief recap on some things like growth does not happen to our spirit itself. So usually when people say things like training the human spirit, what they are really talking about is the hidden man which we could also call the inner man as we are going to further establish in this episode. And we need to be able to identify that particular aspect of us. 

Distinguish it from our spirit man, even from our outward man, the body. So that when we see a believer that is a new creation having the life and nature of God, but we see the person by growth and by actions walking differently, we are able to understand why that is the case and also effectively able to address it. And remember when I say when we say believers, I'm speaking about you as well. So when you think about yourself and you recognize what Christ has done in you and for you and who you are in him, but then you find yourself at one juncture or the other or as a whole walking in one regard contrary to who you are, you know why that is the case and what to do about it. 

Now just to remind us 2 Corinthians chapter 4 when Paul was speaking there he says that though our outward man is perishing yet our inward man is being renewed day by day. So he speaks about man from this paradigm as inward man and outward man. So there is the inward man is renewed day by day. And it's not literal to say it's renewed day by day. 

It's just to say that he's never aging. It's it's always the same you might want to say. But the outward man in contrast is perishing. So the idea is day by day we know that we are aging. 

The outward man is perishing owing to mortality in our body which is one aspect of our humanity that redemption does not affect until the coming of the Lord. So mortality is still taking his toll. Now of course redemption affects sicknesses and diseases. We can receive God's power in our bodies to be healed. 

We can walk in the reality of the divine nature in regards to natural physical things. But when it comes to mortality, that is still an ongoing reality for the sake of God's working out of his purpose. He doesn't want this age to end until the culmination of all that he intends, of all that he desires. So, we're going to have this age go on from generation to generation until the consumation of God's purpose. 

Now if there's an outward man that is perishing and there's the inward man that is being renewed day by day. You know it's easy to speak of ourel as the body and then speak of oursel as spirit and then when we look at believers whose spirits are now one with the lord as 1 Corinthians 6:17 says it says he that is joined to the lord is one spirit with him. When we think of ourselves that way that oh I'm one spirit with the lord I'm a believer. Yet we see the situation where there are times these people who have this life of God in them, nature of God in them are not walking in it. 

Why is that the case? Where exactly is their action coming from? What part of them is really acting this way? Now we have been zooming in on first Peter chapter 3 where Peter commented on the Eden man. 

Now very brilliant teachers of God's word have often presented the concept of the Eden man to discuss the spirit of man and there were very good intentions there. Usually in the explanation what happens is a conflation between our nature and our mind. But we are trying to see in the exact way Peter framed it. What did he mean by the hidden man? 

What is this part of us that is beyond just our outward man and that is not our spirit man. What is this part of us that he calls the hidden man of the heart of which like I've said what heart if you do a study through the use of the word both in the Old Testament text and the New Testament text. In the Old Testament text I believe is the Hebrew word le and libab for heart. the New Testament text kadia I mean 90 something% of the use of this word if not almost every instance there might be few instances we might try to wiggle around is talking about the mind of man in practical terms when you look at the verbs that are used around it adjectives etc you start to get the sense just the entire content you start to get a sense that the word consistently speaks to the mind and the use in first Peter as well cements understanding that the Eden man talks about a reality in our mind yet it's not every part of our mind that is called the Eden man. 

There's the Eden man of our mind of our heart. Our heart has aspects of it that are not the hidden man. There's the reasoning aspect of our heart. You know there are times where you say someone's heart is hardened and times where you say the person was thinking in his heart why you having these thoughts on your heart and that's not the man. 

So we need to surgically distinguish precisely and exactly what the Eden man is. Now in 1 Peter chapter 3 and in verse one Peter said wives likewise be submissive to your own husbands that even if they do not obey the word they without a word might be won by the conduct of their wives. So our conducts matter a lot in people's salvation in fact because we can attract or repel people just by our conduct. Verse two says, "When they observe your chasteed conduct accompanied by fear, do not let your adornment be merely outward, arranging the hair, wearing gold, or putting on fine apparel. 

" So in this case, talking to the wives and particularly wives of those who are not believers, and he's instructing them not to have the mindset of only beautifying themselves or adorning themselves outwardly. Like I've said that word to adon is the word cosmio if I'm correct but it's from that word cosmos as well is about arrangements and also from where we have the word cosmetic today. So your beautifification of yourself your adornment of yourself should not be merely outward. Now clearly this outward is talking about the outward man the body you know that's where you put your makeup that's where you might wear your cloth etc. 

So it says don't focus on dressing adorning and beautifying the outward man. There's another part of you that you need to dress. And by the entire context of God's word, our spirit is not a part of us that needs to be dressed. Our spirit has already been dressed fully robed. 

It can't be improved upon. We have repeated over and again, we are already partakers of the divine nature. We already have the life of God. The fullness of Christ is in us. 

I mean, the emphasis on the state of our spirit is absolute, complete, perfect, immutable, is fixed, and done. So where the work is is on another part other than the spirit man and the outward man. So what part do we need to adorn? He says don't just adorn the outward man. 

What part do we need to adorn? He said rather let your adornment your beautifification or your dressing be the hidden man of the heart. So beyond knowing that we need to grow generally beyond knowing that we grow by faith stand we must know to what person exactly to what man exactly to what part of us exactly this growth is happening. And he says this reality, this person that growth is happening to is the hidden man of the heart. 

He identifies it as the hidden man of the earth. So let your adornment be the hidden man of the heart. And he says what we should have done it with. He says adorn that hidden man of the heart with the incorruptible beauty or cosmetic or makeup of a gentle and quiet spirit. 

Now if you study the words gentle and quiet, they are realities already of the of our spirit. You know Galatians 5:22 mentions the fruits that our spirit produces. So our spirit produces love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, meekness. You can say gentleness as well. 

KJV will use gentleness I believe there. And then temperance we are to wear this gentle and quiet just talking about humility spirit which is very precious in the sight of God. So he's saying take the realities of your spirit and adorn them on the eden man of your mind. It's not enough that you have the spirit of God. 

It's important that you do the work from your spirit to your mind. You are supposed to adorn the hidden man of the heart. And then in our last episode, we're starting to make the argument that Paul also refers to this same part of man, but calls it the inner man. Now, we understand that Paul has already spoken about the inward man as this part that is always renewed day by day. 

So, there is no improvement happening to this part. But in Ephesians chapter 3 is speaking about an inner man where work can be done or where work is being done to by us or where work is to be done by us. Now in Ephesians chapter 3 and in verse 14 Paul says for this reason I bow my knees to the father of our lord Jesus Christ from whom the old family in heaven and earth is named that he will grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might through the spirit in the inner man. Now I understand that there are people who believe that in that text Paul is saying he wants us to be strengthened with might through the spirit in the inner man. 

That is because the spirit is in our spirit. So they understand the inner man there to be our spirit. Because the spirit is in our spirit then we are being strengthened. But Paul doesn't identify exactly where we are being strengthened. 

I think the evidence the text gives can make us lean differently. And I think we ought to lean differently. Now some of these things they are fine lines of they can become fine lines of debates that are necessary and sometimes maybe certainty may not be as strongly evident in all cases but which one is most probable would be clear. Now interestingly whatever way we go in practical terms what we are saying is still true. 

There's a part of us that has to be strengthened and is being strengthened by the reality of our spirit and the reality of our spirit being one with the spirit of God. But it does seem that Paul intended for his audience to understand as follows when he spoke to them and he says that he will grant you according to riches of his glory to be strengthened. And of course riches of his glory is just talking about the spirit in us because when I say the riches of someone's glory, glory is like the weight of one's nature like oh the riches of that person's glory the extent of someone's strength can be an example of weight of glory. So if someone is like weighs so so so pounds and another person weighs so so so pounds like that's the weight of their glory in terms of if strength is what is being spoken of then the glory the weight of that issue that is being discussed is the extent to which they have it usually whatever it is about a person or in nature so the weight of his glory or the riches of his glory rather in this case I'm saying weight because weight is very is used often with glory that sense of something that is measurable and it's usually heavy so he's saying that there is the person of God or the nature of God and there's the extent of what he of what he can do the riches of his glory the riches of what is possible by his person or his nature now of course that is his spirit which he has given to us so we have that in us it says by that we are strengthened through the spirit in the inner man the word in here is the word ace and there are times where we can just let it slide that it's just the spirit in something but more commonly indeed if you're talking about the spirit in a person then you're going to say um the spirit in the inner man with the Greek word n. 

But here it says the spirit in the inner man with the Greek word is which is that word into or onto. I know there are times where ace can be used in another way. But of course there are very in critical times where the word is strictly must be used as into or onto. I don't want us to make this complicated since this is just podcast level explanation we are trying to do. 

When it says you are strengthened with might by the spirit into the inner man would be a possible reading of that. It means the spirit does that work of strengthening the inner man of bringing about strengthening to the inner man of strengthening of us having strengthening by that spirit in the inner man. So there's what happens in prayer or by faith stand that causes the spirit to give strength to the inner man or to cause the inner man to become strengthened. And that inner man in this context will again be the Eden man of the heart that Peter was talking about that there is such a reality as the Eden man of the heart. 

We are going to see it again in the next episode where Paul will talk about the spirit of the mind. So he's talking about a reality of the mind but uses the word spirit to describe it. And here I'll be reminding us of something we said when we're studying the mind of Mark. So there is this aspect of us that is so critical. 

There's this aspect of us that is so important that the Lord does not want us to ignore or neglect. And that part of us is the hidden man. What is the state of your hidden man? Really, that's what we all get to interact with. 

And if it's not the way it's supposed to be for you to fulfill God's purpose, then it's definitely something that needs to be addressed. See you on the next one. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. 

To learn more of God's word, visit pleose. org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. 

For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose. 
