---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 11)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=udjtpOgVLP4
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 11)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome to the Blose podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We'll be looking at the subject matter, the mind of man. And I believe it's been a very important and impactful teaching. And we started our study on the premise of things we had seen earlier. We had seen the reality of God's purpose as sunship. God has called us to be his child and his hair. Then we had seen the road map of God's purpose or the pursuit of purpose, the journey of God's purpose. And we add the sense of how God's purpose unfolds. But there was a challenge like knowing exactly the path to take to fulfill purpose does not imply that one has the ability to bear the burden which one is to bear as one works through that path. So I'm supposed to carry these two loads on both hands and I'm supposed to walk a particular path and then I've been shown that oh you have to go this way make a turn at this point and so on and so forth. But that would not resolve the challenge of the capacity that one has to bear the burden through that journey. And that led us to the next point in our study which is how to fulfill God's purpose where we saw the need for growth. So we need growth to be able to fulfill that purpose that God has for us. At that point there was yet another challenge where we saw that this growth we're talking about boils down entirely to our mind. And that was particularly clear from Ephesians 4 after Paul talked about the work of the church to perfect the saints until we come to the unity of the faith knowledge of the son of God perfect man measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So the destination that Paul desires that we come to is a destination in our mind. You'll notice that the first two descriptions is with knowledge and the other two descriptions talking about stature are describing a reality in the mind which explains why from Ephesians 4 from verse 17 downwards to verse 19 Paul kept talking about the mind. He says the reason why the Gentiles or the rest of the Gentiles that is the people who are yet to believe in the gospel who are yet to receive the life of God are walking the way they do is because of the state of their minds. If you remember the strong emphasis that he placed on the mind of man, he said they walking in the futility of their mind. Their understanding is darkened. They are alienated from the life of God. Now elenated from the life of God is the state of their spirit which he had addressed as well in Ephesians 2 where he showed that we as well who are yet to believe who have just believed in the gospel or who have believed in the gospel had a state where we were once dead but now we have been made alive by the work that Christ has done. He showed that their spirit affects why they walk the way they do. But his emphasis notwithstanding was on their mind, the futility of their mind, understanding darkening, the ignorance that is in them, the blindness of their heart. So this has compelled us to study the mind of man. And in our study of the mind of man, we had to rightly situate the reality of humanity as a whole. If the mind is the issue, then okay, what do we make of who we are in Christ? and uh the reality of the new creation that we have. If our mind can determine our work differently from our nature. So we have this new nature and yet we have our mind as determinant of our conduct. We have to account for the dynamics of our nature and the contradiction that could exist in our conduct which we find out is as a result of the gap in the mind. To understand that we looked at two major texts that helped our appreciation of the reality of man. Particularly we saw 1 Thessalonians 5 and23 and then 2 Corinthians 4 and:e 16. You recall 1 Corinthians 5 and23 mentioned that our whole spirit, soul and body will be preserved blameless until the day of Jesus. So man is holistically spirit, soul and body which we pointed out we must be careful with the word soul. Something we have already explained. I'll come back to that. But 2 Corinthians 4:16 just tells us that we have the inward man and the outward man. And I said if you describe any entity with in and out you have described it entirely at least using that paradigm. You could take another approach to describing the entity. You could describe the entity as by virtue of its part. But in this case you're just describing it what is in and what is out. And he says there is the inward man and there is the outward man. He speaks of the dual reality of humanity whilst we see first Thessalonians what has led people to describe man as a tripartite being. And it works. If you say man is a spirit, has a soul, if you mean a mind and lives in a body, it works. It's a very great way of explaining the reality of man, but it's just that the word soul itself does not ordinarily mean mind. You just have to be careful of that. You can adopt the word soul to mean mind today. It's just that you will surely face challenges with certain text of scripture. In fact, almost every instance where soul is used doesn't mean mind. After you face that challenge over and again, it's best to admit what it means biblically and then recognize why you are pointing out man in this tripat manner which is a very effective way. Now back to the way Paul explained man. Man man is inward man and outward man. One of the text I have to clarify that was the accounts that the lord gave us of Lazarus and the rich man which I said we shouldn't just take as a parable. Looks more like the Lord's given an actual account and in that account we witness the inward and the outward man of these two individuals where they were alive physically on the earth with their bodies at play and they both died. So their outward man was buried and they both passed on to which at this time of course this is another study we can't get into right now. Ades was the dwelling place of all humanity until the resurrection of the Lord Jesus where those on the side of mercy as we say now found in the general assembly that is the church. So as at this point we see the two compartments in it and they did not have their outward man. So they had only their inward man for short that we can say because their bodies were buried yet their inward man definitely had a mind they had conversations with memories etc going on. And so they were able to reason as even a proof of the mind being present. Communicate proof of the mind being present. They were able to speak to their memories. We even saw certain tendencies or mindsets as we like to call it present. Like the rich man still had his mindset prior to his abandonment of or his death where he was no longer with his outward man. He was still he still had that kind of pride going on trying to send Lazarus on errands over and again. So clearly his mindset was still present. Now that text alone starts to show us that there are aspects or I don't know what other word we could use here maybe parts there are aspects there are compartment there are different realities to the mind the mind is a very big word there are many things to recognize within it we are saying man is reasoning is happening on the mind there mindsets is happening on the mind there's memories happening on the mind and we're going to see there are like about seven things we could point out happening on the mind and it's not just for the sake of knowledge we're looking at this but for the implication that it has on our growth I want you to appreciate that, pay attention to it so that you can walk in it. We clarified before moving on the understanding of the word spirit as well as the word soul. We saw that the word spirit is just used for any entity that is invisible but has visible effects. While the world soul speaks to vitality, something having active functional vibrant life and able to have animations as a result. So you see the word soul used in that manner. Now if we recognize that fact, this is how spirit is described. This is how soul is described. I said we could then appreciate that 1 Thessalonians 5:23 uses the word spiritual and body to talk about our inward and outward reality and the fact that it is vital. We have a spirit, we have a body and it is vital. Another thing we could learn from the text but this one is aside our teaching but let me just mention is it seems to be making our vitality primarily spiritual and I said the root of understanding the word soul is Genesis 2:7 because the word soul plays into that text a lot. The breath that God breathe into man made him a living soul. They made him someone that was active and that word soul is used even for animals just showing vitality in different ways, shape and form. Whether physical vitality or we could even say spiritual vitality as well. That's something else to be agreed for. Now, back to our study on the mind of man. What are these things that make for the mind of man that are worth examining? I said there are two major words for the word mind that we're going to encounter in the New Testament Greek. There's the word no. I hope I'm pronouncing it right. And there's the word down know here. If I'm not, you have to spare because I I'm not Greek. But just making the effort for sake of explanation. Now the word know whose mind one of the texts I like us to look at and we started to look at from the last episode was Luke chapter 24 and verse 45 the Lord had died and had been raised from the dead and had come to his apostles to make them understand the import of what he has done in the reality of his being the Christ. Then he told them in verse 45 he opened their understanding that they may comprehend the scriptures. The word understanding there is he open their mind know who's that they may comprehend the scriptures. Whilst we realize that the word mind is sort of like a bracket word for many things that happen emotions would point to that conscience will be found in the same word mind. Even free will as we'll see will be seen in the word mind here is pointing to one of the realities or aspects of the mind. So he opened their understanding that means this place where they consider they think or they reason about issues was closed to what they had been reading in the scriptures to see that implication in it and is now opening them by function of his explanation is making them see in their reason. This understanding is pointing to that particular reasoning part of the equation of the mind. He opened their understanding. Their reasoning was able to appreciate that oh what was said in the scriptures necessitated this work that Lord Jesus had just fulfilled. So you open the understanding that they may compare scripture and that's why the next verse says first it is written and for it was necessary. So we are seeing a word of logical implication. So reason was the issue there. It was necessary for Christ to suffer and to rise again from the dead the third day. We could say that an aspect of the mind is the reasoning part of man. Some of the things we are saying we are pointing to the evidence from scripture but there are things you can also verify by your own observation. You have this reasoning part of you. If I say 2 + 2 equals 5 that information has gone into the reasoning part of your mind. That information receiving details considering observation considering part of you. You have received via your sense of perception. You have heard me say something and then you are now reasoning about it. It's part of your mind. It doesn't mean you agree with what I've said. So even though as I've spoken now it goes into your mind 2 plus 2= 5. It has gone into one part of your mind. You have heard me say it and I'm repeating it over and again you are hearing me say it. It will likely go to another part of your mind that we saw in Luke 16 the account of Lazarus and the rich man which is memory. You will say oh when I was listening to that fellow who was making an illustration that 2 plus 2= 5 to pass across a point. You have heard me say 2 plus 2als 5. You have reasoned about it and you have disagreed with it. But it has gone into your memory that we mentioned 2 plus 2= 5. But another part of your mind has done something else with that information. One part was considering it. 2 + 2= 5 like nah 2+ 2 is not equals 5. Another part has received it. It goes into your memory. There's all the conversation on long-term and short-term memory. But there's another part of your mind that says no it's not correct. It's not just the fact that you were considering. Of course they all interlin permit the fact that we are trying to separate them for reason of clarity. You would appreciate that as we proceed. Why is important that we spell it out so you can understand how your mind affects your work and how it affects your fulfillment of God's purpose. So whenever you receive information, it has the privilege of getting into your memory usually to be stored. But depending on how much weight you place on information, it may be preserved. You may be able to recall, sometimes you're unable to recall. So there's long-term and short-term memory. And then there is the next part of your mind which is I'm trying to point out for now I will say it's your conviction space in your mind which is I don't agree with what that guy said. I don't agree that 2 plus 2 equals 5 because as you reasoned and the conclusion of your reasoning you have this conclusion part that says nah that's not correct. I don't think that's right and you disagree. So you got the information is probably gone to your memory but you disagree. The mere fact that you could disagree brings up something else we're going to look at which is free will which also is on your mind. And from the next episode, we're going to be getting to a very vital, very, very vital part of the mind that is often ignored, but is at the core of what we do, how we work. See you on the next one. Thank you. &gt;&gt;
