---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 4)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pfLV-EG0QrU
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 4)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Blero Podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Presently, we're looking at the mind of man. Such an important teaching. We have been able to introduce the subject matter to a very good degree. We've seen what God's purpose is, right? Sunship to be God's child and God's heirs, which means we have assignments to fulfill. We have proceeded from that to see the journey or the road map or the pursuits of God's purpose. So, this is how it unfolds. a daily life of devotion. Our natural assignment unfolds this way and then our spiritual assignment unfolds this other way. Now having the knowledge of what God's purpose is and even the privilege of seeing the road map would not cut it. We need more than that. We need to fulfill it. How do we fulfill it? How do we bear the burden? And that's where we see the need for growth. We need to grow. Speaking of the need for growth, we saw the Lord instructed disciplehip and he explained in Luke 6:40 that disciplehip is to perfect people to be as the master. A word that Paul picked up on in Ephesians 4. And it says the church and his leadership is given for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of ministry, etc., etc. All right. I now I hope you're following through. So God's purpose requires growth. And when we start to see where this growth happens in Ephesians 4:17, we are told that it happens on the mind. So after Paul talked about the church role to perfect us as saints where we come to these end points in knowledge and in stature, he makes it clear that all of this is happening on the mind. Okay. So I said when we talk about spiritual growth, growing up spiritually, we must be looking at what's happening on the mind, not what's happening to our spirit. And I'm going to try to make some emphasis in that regard. Our spirit cannot be improved upon. The moment a man is born again, the man's spirit cannot be improved upon. The change that had to happen to our spirit has happened once and for all. Now, in another sense, when we're talking about spiritual growth, it's a mind thing. But for reason like for of semantics like oh um someone says liar, yeah, that guy's spirit is very strong. We could let it slide. We know he's talking about the mind. There's a sense in which we can use spirit and we are talking about the mind. And this is something very important and we're going to come to that as well. But I want to make a point first today. Establish a point before we come back to Ephesians 4:17 downwards. Our spirits cannot be improved upon. That's the point I want to make first. Our spirit cannot be improved upon. Is in a perfect, complete, and divine state. It is exactly as Christ. Do you recall Romans 8:15? We've seen the text a lot. He said you have not received the spirit of bonding again to fear but the spirit of sunship whereby we cry by father that is God has given us his spirit and he gave us a spirit so much so that it is entirely fused with our spirit to the end that the testimony of these two spirits are the same. If you put them to the test the outcome the result of your examination turns out the exact same thing. Right? So he says in verse 16 the spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. The spirit of sunship bears witness with our spirits that we are children of God. These two spirits are fused as one. They have the exact same testimony. That would mean that if there's no improvement to happen to the spirit of God, there is no improvement to happen to our spirit. Now, let's see text 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 17. We cannot add more done to our spirit than it already has. You can't improve upon our spirit any more than you can improve upon the spirit of God. We have all that we're ever going to have when it comes to our spirit, when it comes to our nature. The growth of our spirit in quotes. The growth we need spiritually will be better. But the growth of our spirit is really a growth in our mind. So our spirit is entirely fused with God's spirit. We are entirely have God's nature. Every time we speak about growth, we move from child to adulthood spiritually. We should no longer be children toss to and fro. Is is something that happens on our mind. See 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 18 it says in verse 17 but he that is joined to the Lord is one spirit with him is italicized. So the translators added it and it's helpful but we could still read it as he that is joined to the Lord is one spirit. We could say is one spirit with him. So when you are joined to the Lord you are one spirit with him. It's talking about salvation. Then 1 Corinthians 6:17 when you are joined to the Lord you are one spirit. So you have the exact same spirit. That is you are one spirit with the Lord. There's no difference between your spirit and his spirit. There is no difference. They are fused together as one. Now, there's the reality of us having our spirit. Romans 8:15 makes that 16 makes that clear. The spirit bears witness with our spirit. The two of them have the same testimony. They are children of God. But they are fused as one. If there's any doubt about having our spirit first clears it out. First 5:23, let's quickly see that. So we do have our spirit but the reality of the state of our spirit is that it has been fused with God's spirit is united with God's spirit and that's why sometimes they'll just say the spirit of God is in us and they may not make any commentary on our spirit because they have become fused as one. There's a union that has happened between God's spirit and our spirit. 1 5:23 Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. So he's talked about the entirety of our person and he describes it with the word spirit, soul, and body. I know in the earlier study we had where we're looking at how to fulfill God's purpose where we said would address the issue of the soul. I trust that we'll be able to do that as we study the mind of man. But we mustn't quickly make the assumption that the soul is the mind. The word soul itself just means vitality is a word about having life breath having animation in oneself. Vitality we are not there yet. So I don't want us to go down that line but we'll come back to it to see what soul is. So but it says our entire being which includes our spirit, soul and body. So we know that we have a spirit but for those of us who have received the gospel our spirit is fused with God's spirit. 1 John 3:24 our spirit is fused with God's spirit. God is in us and in that sense we're talking about the spirit of God. 1 John 3 and in verse 24 it says now he who keeps his commandment which is faith and the subsequent walk in love. So in that sense we are waiting to completely walk in love. This text can never be true about you. So really the commandment is the commandment is about faith. The walk in love is hinged on that. So he keeps his commandments. If you read the earlier text you'll get why he's saying that he's saying that if you don't walk in love you don't have eternal life in you. So essentially if you believe the gospel you have eternal life in you. You would walk in law. Now we understand there's a growth factor to that. But that's John's way of speaking to impress his point on the audience. We must read the scriptures holistically to understand what he's saying. So when he says if you keep his commandments which he was saying is faith and love then the spirit of God is in you. He's really saying when you believe the spirit of God is in you. You have to walk in love. And if you're not walking in love we should question whether indeed you have believed and the spirit of God is in you. That is valid. Now he who keeps his commandment abides in him. Talking about in God. If you read the earlier verses the commandments were the commandments of God. So he said he that keeps his commandment abides in God and God in him. And by this we know that he abides in us. Hey, the spirit whom he has given us. So God's dwelling in us is by his spirit. We must be careful not to say God's dwelling us is the father and the son dwelling in us. The scriptures doesn't teach that the persons of the father and the son are not said to dwell in us. Like persons dwelling in our persons will be a little like the three persons when it's not what the scripture teaches. Now the scripture does teach that the person of the spirit God has given to us is fused with our spirit and we could speak of them differently. The spirit God gave us our spirit but we could speak of them you know overlappingly similarly they are two realities but they are fused as one. So that's what the scripture teaches the spirit abides in us. You see the same thing first John 4 and verse 13. We know that we abide in him talking about God and he in us because he has given us of his spirit. So what I'm saying is you cannot improve on what you have is saying you want to improve on God. You cannot improve on God. Now first second Peter rather chapter 1 and verse 3 and four makes that abundantly clear as well. The growth in what we have happens on our mind as far as our spirit is concerned is in a complete perfect divine state. 2 Peter 1 and verse three says, "As his divine power has given unto us all things that pertains to life and godliness through the knowledge of him that called us to glory and virtue." Verse four says, "By which have been given to us exceeding great and precious promises that by these you may be made partakers of the divine nature." Now he's talking about the promises God gave in view of the fulfillment of redemption in Christ which we have received today. And by those promises fulfilled now in Christ, we have become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through loss. So it's talking about the reign of sin there, darkness, the flesh that we had, we have escaped that we now have the divine nature in us. We are partakers of divine nature. What I like about the word, the word partakers is quonus. That word quonius, you should be familiar with the word because we hear quonia a lot in different way, shape and form. There are institutions called Christian um organizations called quonia. uh churches that old programs coonia and you would see the word means fellowship. The core of that word coonia is the root coinos. Coenos simply means common. So when we say we are partakers of the divine nature, we have the divine nature in common. So it means we that's so heavy. We have the divine nature just as it is commonly had which of course the only person that has divine nature is God. But now he's given it to us in common with him. 1 John 1 is going to say we have fellowship with the father and with the son. He has given to us his spirit to have his life and nature. Now this doesn't make you god by any stretch because to be god you be created. You are self-existent. You are not god period. This is no pantheism. This is no panttheism. This is just Christianity that God wanted us as his children and he gave us a spirit to fulfill that. Your status is not that of God. Your nature is that of God. God's status is I am is selfexistent. You are not. So very important that we make that clarification. So we have God's nature. We can improve on the nature we have. That is we can't get more nature. Let's look at one more text in this regard. Colossians chapter 2 and verse 9 and 10. We have God's nature. Can't make any improvement to that. But we are to grow in that nature. I don't know if what I'm saying makes enough sense. The growth is happening on the mind. The nature itself is fixed and permanent. Literally God's spirit is in you. The greater one is in you. The greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. There is no improvement to that reality that's in you. But there is the place of growth that needs to happen. And I'm going to explain that growth that needs to happen to us shortly. Colossians 12:9. For in him, it's talking about in Christ dwells the fullness of the godhead bodily. So with the person of the Lord Jesus, for the first time, we encounter an human that entirely embodies divinity. And now via him other people do. All right. So God becomes man. We are seeing the full embodiment of divinity. But in that sense he makes us embody divinity by nature as well. Verse 10 says and you are complete in him who is the head of all principalities and power. So the reality in him which is the fullness of divinity is in him. You are complete in that. Right? You are complete in this reality of the fullness of God being in him. You are not having a part of portion on it. You are complete in him. Right brothers and sisters, I think that is something so important for us to recognize about ourselves that we have God's nature. There is no improving on our nature on our spirit. One spirit with Lord, but there is a lot of work to do on our mind. In the next episode, I'm going to get into it. This how to think about the mind of man and maybe we start to see the different things that make up the mind of man. There is really so much to unpack, but don't worry, we're going to get there. See you in the next episode. &gt;&gt;
