---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 10)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjF80P1xZPA
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 10)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome back to the Plleose podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. Remember, we're looking at the mind of man, but also recall what God's purpose is. God's purpose is sunship. He wants you to walk as his child and is here on a daily basis. And I haven't seen what God's purpose is. Our study has been on um how to fulfill it. We have seen the road map of God's purpose. This is how the journey unfolds. We have seen how to fulfill God's purpose. Um we have seen how to fulfill Yeah, we have seen how to fulfill God's purpose which is by growth. And that has led us to the conclusion that it's our mind that determines if we fulfill God's purpose. Our mind is what determines it. Like I'm not sure I'm even emphasizing it enough and I do hope that it gets to you. Let me emphasize you another way. The limitations of your mind are really a limitation on God's purpose for your life. The limitations on your mind are limitations on God's purpose for your life. And this is serious and real. Sometimes the world and flesh have place certain limitations on our mind. I know that personally like I've had to work hard against certain limitations, you know, from background different ways that can impose themselves on you and place limit um be limiters on your pursuit of God's purpose. You need to with all seriousness and intentionality fight hard against the limitations that could have been imposed on the world by the flesh on your mind. Take it seriously. Your mind is your life and your mind is the determinant of God's purpose for your life. There is nothing that determines God's purpose for your life like your mind. In fact, it's the only thing that does. Anyways, so let's let's proceed. We saw that particularly by looking at the instruction of disciplehip the Lord Jesus gave which is also the instruction to perfect the saints that Paul explains in Ephesians chapter 4 and he told us that our perfecting of the saints is to bring us to a particular juncture which is the perfect man the measure of the stature of fullness of Christ. He describes actually the end point of the perfecting in two ways with knowledge and with stature. The first part says we are to come to the nature of the faith knowledge of son of God. Then the second part says perfect mind, measure of stature, fullness of Christ. All of these four descriptions are still about the mind, right? And that's why when it goes to verse 17, it started to say that we should not walk as the rest of the unbelieving in the gospel do, which is that they walk in the futility of their mind. Their understanding is darkened. They are alienated from the life of God. There is ignorance in them. And he says there's the blindness of their heart. Okay. Now if we recognize all that Paul um has said at this juncture about about our work about our growth then it's very important for us to pay much attention to the mind. Yes. Use four descriptions of the condition of those who are not walking right. Use five descriptions sorry of the conditions of those who are not working right. Only one for their nature and the other four for their mind. Okay. So the mind is the issue. The mind of man is the issue. At this point we said so what part does our spirit play and we studied our spirit as believers which is fused entirely with God's spirit. We are one spirit with the Lord. We have the life and the very nature of God. We saw several texts in that regard and we concluded that our spirit is in a perfect complete and divine state. But then our mind needs a lot of work because it's coming straight out of the wild or the world. I haven't said that much. We um proceeded to see uh the wholesome description of man. There's this spirit part, there's this mind part. We also aware that we have a body. How do we describe man? 1 Thessalonians 5:23 as well as 2 Corinthians 4:16 were helpful in this regard. The first Thessalonian text says that may God may the may your whole soul spirit soul and body be preserved blameless until the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. So there's the whole spirit soul and body that he points he points out that we have. Then on the other hand in second Corinthians chapter 4 and in verse 16 it tells us that um if our outward man perishes our inward man is renewed day by day. So this first one, 1 Thessalonians 5 is giving us like three descriptions of humanity or three parts that make up humanity. The other one is giving us two. It says your spirit, soul and body. This other one says your um your inward the inward man and outward man. One is perishing, the other is renewed. Last episode we explained spirit and soul, right? But before I do that, I just want to remind us, you know, there we could think of it from the inward and outward man standpoint. And I said the best way to think about about man who is as as um is as what's it called? Having a body with a mind and having a spirit with I'm sorry having a body with a brain and having a spirit with a mind. That's the best way to think about mind. So you can think of yourself as someone who has a body with a brain and a spirit with a mind. You won't be wrong to say things like man is a spirit has a mind and lives in a body. That will be very accurate way of presenting your case. So man is a spirit as a mind and lives in a body. Um if you say man is a spirit has a soul and lives in a body. You say man is a spirit. He has vitality and he lives in a body which is true. Um there is the argument of vitality for both the spirit and the body. Some argue for the spirit automatically having vitality. Now vitality for humans is traceable to that word soul is traceable to Genesis 2:7 where he said the Lord breathed into man and he became a living soul. He came alive. He could now have animations. So there is there is this essence of vitality that was put into man. Not just man, any being God made, God made them vital. So you could say the framework of spirit exist and the framework of body exist but it requires vitality as well and it's in that sense that we should think of spirit soul and body which is the spiritual substance and the natural substance if we can use those words having vitality. So your entire being which is spiritual natural and its vitality you know is preserved all the way to the end may be the best reading of 1 Thessalonians 5 and 23 if we don't want to twist turn the text upside down. Now for 2 Corinthians 4:16, we have the inward man, outward man, a body with a brain, like we have a spirit with a mind. And we made arguments for that from Luke 16, the account of Lazarus and the rich man, as well as um Acts chapter 2, the Lord Jesus's death and resurrection. His body was buried and was in Separ as well as David's own, but his flesh did not see corruption unlike David's own because he was raised on the third day. Now but his soul which was actually talking about his spirit. Now this is the part because when soul is vitality you could slap that word on spirit and you will slap it on the body. In fact if we were running through the old testament text which we have done in some teachings you would see that the word for soul is used for animals. It is used right there in Genesis chapter one. So they were living beings or living creatures is the exact same word that was used for man. So it's so important that we recognize that that word soul is this word about vitality. Okay. Now if man is a body with a brain and a spirit with a mind. We know our spirit is perfect, complete and divine. But our mind was exposed to the world and needs a lot of work and not just was still being exposed to the world and can be conformed to the same. There's a lot of work we need to do on our mind. We need to have a plan for our mind. The 168 hours in a week that it spends in this world. We need to have a plan for it to go to church. We need to have a plan for it when it's not in church. We need to have a plan a plan for it when it's in the world. Right. Um Um now which means we must understand the aspects of our mind to have that plan. At this point I will just remind us we have explained the word spirit and soul. Right? And remember that spirit is just a word for wind which is to describe invincible invisible realities that have visible effects while while soul is a word for breath speaking to vitality that which causes or brings about animations and activities. So they are descriptive word we could call a person that soul and we're talking about the entire person as a vital being. We could but we can't say that for the spirit actually because man man has a body and that's not invisible. So um but there are things we could use spirit for and we're not talking about the spirit man. We're not talking about the inward man like our work is caused by a particular aspect of our mind and that part of our mind can be called spirit because it is its reality doesn't end with the mind. It produces visible effects. So there are many realities of our mind that end with the mind like memory. You just have your memory. It's not really out there to produce visible effect. U it's just there on your mind. But there are things on our mind. There is a part or an aspect of our mind that produces visible effects and that can be called the spirit of the mind. In fact, that part can also be called the soul of the mind because it's acting in a vital manner as though an entity that is alive even though it's just a part of the mind. This is where you see words like Paul saying Timothy and I have the same soul. We of kindred spirit. He uses the word isosukus which means equal soul, equal breath, equal vitality. Okay. Um the other text on that several I don't want us to go into that. Having said that, now that we have cleared our picture of the reality of man, what exactly makes up man's mind, right? Paul said a lot about man's mind. He said futility of the mind, understanding darkening, ignorance is in them, blindness of their heart. And you cannot escape him talking about the mind so many times. Even the folks who don't believe the gospel, it says whose minds the god of this world has blinded. So he's saying that the falsehood that is in this world, the information that is poured out in this world, contrary to truth, which of course is telling us is manned and propagated by the devil and his courts. Um he says has blinded the minds of some people at the instance of truth, they still choose that whether hardening their heart rebelliously or still under the deception of the same not yet being clear on the gospel which becomes our responsibility to make claim. So there is this fact that their minds are blinded. I want to I want us to see a lot of thing. I want us to see the different realities of the mind. Now what led us to this view if you remember from our study on how to fill God's purpose. We said the renewing of the mind in Romans 12 and verse 2 when he says we should be transformed by the renewing of our mind that we may be able to prove that which is the good acceptable perfect will of God. We said information does not transform us. Information enlightens us. So renewing of our mind there what is being renewed in our mind cannot be this part of us that reasons cannot even be our memory. There is something particularly in the mind being renewed now. But many other instances where that same word mind is used is just about reasoning about thinking about considering. One of such instance of such instances is Luke 24 and verse 45. Now in Luke 24, the Lord had died and been raised from the dead. And he was speaking to his disciples. And he told them in verse 44, "These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which are written in the law of Moses and in the prophets and the psalms concerning me." Right? 44. So verse 45 then says, "He opened their understanding that they may comprehend the scriptures." The word understanding there is the word mind. No, the very same word. Now there are a couple of words used for mind. There is no there's donia which the two words are related and I would explain the relationship between the words even though sometimes they are used can overlap in exactly the same uh way. All right. In Luke 24:25 he said this was uh he opened their understanding verse 45 that they may comprehend the scriptures. He opened their mind that they may comprehend the scriptures. Really the intention is to say he made it clear to their mind but he's using that way of speaking like their minds were close to that truth then now their minds are open to the truth but in actual fact he was bringing the truth to their mind but actually they know the scriptures so their minds were close to things scriptures have said his explanation is opening their mind to the things the scriptures have said. Um at that instance when he said he opened their minds their understanding to comprehend the scriptures this is a reasoning part of their mind they are thinking so he's explaining and it becomes clear this is just information [clears throat] so oh they get an enlightenment and they're like wow this is clear very similar to Ephesians chapter 1 and in verse 18 where it says the eyes of your understanding is enlightened in that case understanding I believe there is donia which is not the but is from two words from the What dire and no right so da can sometimes be seen as mindset which is the conclusion of your mind of your nohoo the word d means through so when your mind has reached this conclusion but sometimes it's just used as the very faculty of the nose as well you know in itsomeness all right so there's the aspect of the mind that deals with reasoning deals with information enlightenment but there's more than that our time is run on us for this episode but we'll start to see the other aspects of the mind from the very next one. See you there. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's [music] episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit [music] pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, [music] God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at [music] Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
