---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "Faith Stand (Part 5)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-SOCL2b-G4
---

# Faith Stand (Part 5)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Playos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. We are presently looking at the faith stand which is a very important subject matter. It's built on the back of things we have seen first about God's purpose and what we have seen about the journey or the road map of that purpose and the fact that it takes growth to be able to carry out and fulfill God's purpose for our lives. You would also recall that we have examined that this growth happens on our mind. So when we speak about spiritual growth is not something that happens in our spirit because our spirit is in a perfect complete and divine state. Spiritual growth is something that happens on our mind. We had some time of studying the mind of man where we saw seven aspects of the mind of man and we put special focus on the reckoning or the consciousness part of the human mind and that is what led to what we are presently studying on faith stand. I'm going to begin with Romans chapter 6 which has been how we've been examining this subject matter. In Romans 6, we saw that Paul pointed out to his audience that their knowledge in God's word is not enough to make for their work in the same. So he affirmed in a rhetorical manner and sometimes he just outrightly stated the knowledge that he shared with them. He affirmed the things that they know. Romans 6 and verse three, he says, "Do you not know as many of us as were baptized into Christ were baptized into his death?" So he's saying that you already know this. Verse 6 as well says knowing that our old man has been crucified with him so he affirmed what they knew. Verse 9 says knowing that Christ having been raised from the dead that is no more. So it's one thing that we know is another thing entirely that we do something about what we know. And by doing something I'm not talking about trying by our willpower to act on what we know. I'm talking about reckoning ourselves. Now Romans 6:11 says, "Likewise, you reckon yourself to be dead indeed to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord." So when we know God's word, the next thing that follows our knowledge is reckoning. We ought to recon. You remember that word is the word loisum. James would also use the word in the negative this time around when he used parisumi in James 1:21. That the reason why someone can hear the word but not do the same is that the person is reckoning aside himself. So the person has a reckoning that is contrary to the knowledge of the word that they have heard. It's one thing that you are rec that you know who you are. It's another thing that you are reckoning who you are. Another word is to describe reckoning who we are is the word to present used in Romans chapter 6 and verse 13. Paul says that we should present our members as instruments of righteousness and we should not present ourselves as instruments of unrighteousness. That word is also used in Romans 6:19 then Romans 12:1 which has been a major text for us. The word present is actually what helped or defined the title that we have faith stand because that word present is paristi in the Greek which is from two words. We have the word par and we have the wordi. The word isi simply means to stand whilst the word par means beside. So it means to stand beside. Romans chapter 12 and in verse one Paul says I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of God that you present which you stand beside your bodies. Now he's talking to all of them. So he said brethren so that's why it's in the plural but each person is to present themsel their person their bodies. It's not every time the word body is usually talking about your physical body. There are times the word can mean your entire person. So in this case when he says to present your selves or your bodies he's saying your person as a whole or living sacrifice holy acceptable unto God which is your reasonable worship and it's talking about our persons is clear from the next verse because it's going to affect your walk in the will of God. It says do not be conformed to the world. One of the things I like about that verse is you don't have to do anything to be conformed. You know unlike transformation that that happens by the renewing of the mind is simply said for confirmation that do not be conformed to the world. So it seems to be the default that one could be conformed to the world. But transformation requires effort and that's because of the present reign of sin and death that is in our world. The present reign of sin and death leads to this outcome of people being confirmed if they do not make the deliberate effort to be transformed. which is also what Romans chapter 6:12 was saying. You remember Romans 6:12 says therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body. Notice the do not let you naturally see do not let righteousness happen to you because righteousness is not the default state of things in our world presently. So it is sin that is the default state. It permeates everything that is in our world from falsehood in belief to moral falsehoods as well in music, media, entertainment etc. permeates our world in so many ways. Sin that is always trying to plant his seeds on our hearts. We must now be deliberate about not allowing it that place that it seeks to have on our hearts. And the only way we can do that is what Romans 12:2 is saying. It says to be transformed by the renewing of your mind. If we are not intentional about our transformation by the renewing of our mind, then we are not going to see that change in our person that makes us able to do the will of God. Notice that it says when you are not conformed to the world but you are transformed by rene is the word to do or can mean to do. Let me say it that way. You are able to put to work. You are able to put to use. You are able to put to test what is the good, acceptable and perfect will of God. You are able to show it to be the case. The proving here is like when you prove by doing like are you really sure that's a real phone or a dummy? And then the person says prove it yourself or test it yourself. So you are using it to show that it's the case. Now when you are transformed you are able to do that which is the good acceptable and perfect will of God. It's not like there are three wills of God. He's simply using adjectives to describe the single will of God as being good as being what is acceptable to God. So is good inherently is acceptable to God and it is complete. That is that which is good acceptable to God is the entirety of his will. In that case, if we're going to do the entirety of God's will for our life, it requires without any doubt from Romans 12:2, this transformation that is by the renewing of our mind. And we have seen that the word renewing of our mind there is a repetition of what it means to present ourselves. So you seeing that there's a refreshing of our mind that happens when we present ourselves. Recall that the word present is paristi which is to stand beside and we have examined that this stand is talking about is what we can call the faith stand. You can see that from 2 Corinthians and in chapter 1 and verse 23 and 24. I'll just go to 24 because of time. It says, "Not that we have dominion over your faith, but we are fellow workers for your joy, for by faith you stand." So ministers of the gospel cannot impose or force the exercise of people's faith. They can have oversightes which you would involve putting down order, giving direction, instruction, in inspiration, correction and rebuke as well. But they cannot force you to do anything. They could do everything to get you to do something but they cannot make you do anything. And he says we are fellow workers for your joy for by faith you stand. How we stand in any context whether any text where we are seeing this instruction of us standing it's usually a matter of faith. You remember 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 also used that word when he was talking about the faith of the folks in Thessalonica. He mentions that he was glad that they are standing fast in the Lord. So our stand is our faith. Our faith in our Christian work is a stand because it's not just one instance of faith like it is at salvation is rather an ongoing deliberate stand of faith that makes for transformation and that brings about our walk in God's purpose. So in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3 he said Timothy had brought him news about their faith and he was really glad and was comforted by their faith. He now says now we live and the word live theirs means we are revived in our hearts like they were down they were discouraged because of persecutions and the inability to reach them as well. So he says, "But now you know we are we are brightened by that news. We are strengthened. We are alive. We live if you stand fast in the Lord." Their faith is what he calls their act of standing fast in the Lord. When you read text that says stand or any such instruction around standing that is very common like I think Galatians 5:1 Thessalonians 2:15, many of the text instructing us to stand are about our response of faith to the knowledge of God's word. and he still told them Thessalonians that he would want to perfect what is lacking in their faith. So if we know that faith is how we stand and grow then it's important to understand the principle of faith as Colossians 2:6 says the way we receive the Lord Jesus is the way we walk in him. Now we have examined what the principle of faith is by looking at Romans chapter 10 8-10. We spoke about the principle of faith when he told us that with the heart a man believes to righteousness in verse 10 and with the mouth confession is made to salvation. I want us to see the principle of faith in Mark 11:23-24. So we see faith as that same principle of being by the heart and by the mouth. One of the challenges that understanding faith in the Christian faith has been is that people can mimic faith in expression particularly with their mouth but maybe ignoring the fact that it begins in the heart. There must be conviction before there is that reckoning that makes for our transformation or our consciousness. Now in Mark 11 and verse 22 the Lord said have faith in God. And 23 most assuredly I say to you whoever says to this mountain be removed and be cast into the sea and does not doubt in his heart but believes that the things which he said shall come to pass you shall have whatsoever he seeth. Now you will notice that he said whosoever shall say which is your mouth be removed be cast into the sea. So that's what you're saying and shall not doubt in his heart. Now that's no longer your mouth. That's now your heart or your mind which is a matter of you have arrived at that conviction. We're going to get to that later. And believes that the things which he says shall come to pass. He shall have whatsoever he says. Verse 24 says therefore I say to you whatever things you ask when you pray believe you receive them and you shall have them. You'll notice prayer is also with your mouth. But it says you believe, you receive them which is your heart and you will have them. So the principle of faith is the heart and the mouth. That's very common. We could even see it in so many other texts including the old testament text like Joshua 1 and vers8. This book of law shall not depart from your mouth. You shall meditate there in day and night which is also faith stand. So he's not departing from your mouth but you are meditating which involves your heart and also your mouth. You are ga. So you are meditating there in day and night. There is that important interaction between our heart and our mouth in faith. In understanding how we got saved, we appreciate it better because at salvation is clear to us that we believed in our hearts first. Someone preached to us. In fact, let's go back to Romans chapter 1 because this is what lead us to what we want to see next where we are now focusing on what follows from when we have believed in our heart. In Romans 1, after Paul talked about the principle of faith, he said, "How else can people believe except someone should preach to them?" You notice Romans 1 after verse 10 spoke about believing in the heart, confessing with the mouth. It says, "Whosoever believes on him shall not be put to shame and there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, the same Lord is rich towards them all. So whoever calls upon the name of the Lord, which is confession shall be saved." But how shall they call on him they have not believed? So you can only confess an actual calling on the Lord if you actually believe. How shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? How shall they hear without a preacher? How shall they preach as they be sent? So something is clear. You must hear God's word. Then it brings a conviction on your heart. Then you speak and at that one instance of speaking for salvivic faith. At that one instance of speaking, you are saved. But it's going to operate differently when it comes to faith stand that makes for our work which is renewing of the mind which is presenting yourself which is reckoning. all of them in the continuous which is abiding beside like James will say what continues the continuation is more on the mouth but is of something that must have been grounded on the heart so we're going to stop here at this point but we'll be focusing more on Romans 12:1 like I said earlier we will do from the next episode I know there's so much to cover but I trust that you are catching on with what faith stand means and how it affects your growth to fulfill God's purpose for now God bless you and see you on the next one &gt;&gt; we trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
