---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Place of the Gospel in your Life (Part 1)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_xHfkCZy3g
---

# The Place of the Gospel in your Life (Part 1)

You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Aki. [music] It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind [music] and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you [music] that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, brothers and sisters, welcome to the very first episode of the Pleus podcast. And on this episode, I'll be sharing what I consider to be a very important subject matter. I think it's the best place for me to start. We'll be looking at what I'll title the place of the gospel in your life. The place of the gospel in your life. The reason why I think it's important is that many people treat the gospel in different ways. Some people value it in one way, some others in another way. So you find that to some people all the gospel is is that message that they believed when someone came to preach to them and so they believed the gospel and they are saved and that's the end of the story. So I'm saved. Nobody should stress me after that. That's how some people treat the gospel. Some other people treat the gospel as a Sunday affair. So on Sunday I go to church and yeah that's what the gospel is about. And then there are those people who like treat the gospel as oh I have a problem and they say the answer is just in this message that they call the gospel and so that's what is really about and the gospel is meant to solve my problems. So we are not debating all these issues yet but is that the place that the gospel wants to hold in our life? That's the question I want to answer. And to answer that I'm going to start with a very important text. Ephesians 1 and verse 13. Id like us to go there. Ephesians 1:13. So Paul is speaking here in Ephesians 1:13. And he says, "In him you trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation." Look at that. That's what he said. He said in him, talking about Jesus, you trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. See what he did there? He said, what you heard is the word of truth. And he specifies that what you then heard is the gospel of salvation. That means what is calling the word of truth is the gospel of salvation. We can say the other way is calling the gospel of salvation the word of truth. Okay. So the place that the gospel is claiming in our lives is not a random place. It's claiming to be the truth. You know it says you trusted in this message called the gospel because it is the truth. The place that the gospel is claiming in your life in my life in the life of every person even is the place of truth. Now you might like well okay what does that mean? The gospel is claiming to be truth. And I'll tell you the major implication of that. If the gospel is claiming to be the truth it means it is claiming to be right. That is it is always right. You know if someone says oh that's just the truth about the matter that's the right issue on the matter. Let's say two people are having a debate and someone is saying no within this earth space there's gravity and that person says no there's no gravity and someone says what I'm telling you is the truth. The person is saying I'm right. If you go and act like there is no gravity you're going to see the implication. So the place of truth is so important because it's a claim that what is being said is right. So what the gospel is saying is hey guys I'm right. I'm right. I'm the truth. I'm that message of truth and he's doing that to everybody. So before these people believed he said you heard the word of truth gospel of salvation then you believed. So the gospel was waving at them. Hey I'm the truth. So, I'm addressing this now to everyone. I believe there are believers that will hear this and possibly there could be unbelievers that will hear it and the gospel is waving itself out. Hey, hey, hey, I'm I'm the truth. I'm right. That's the place of truth. Now, I want you to see a particular text that helps us to appreciate what it means when something claims to be the truth. And that's 2 Corinthians chapter 13. You know, it helps us to appreciate what it means if anything claims to be the truth. So if something is claiming to be the truth, what does what's the weight of that? What's the implication of that? In 2 Corinthians chapter 13 and in verse 8, it says, "For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth." We can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth. Okay, that's another serious text. We can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth. Now let me let me try to you know spell it out pass it out. If someone says you can do nothing against the truth but for the truth it implies that even what you do against the truth is still for the truth. Let's go back to our example the gravity example. Someone says I don't believe in all that gravity business. Let's say people have spent their entire life from like birth in a particular space where they use a button to control whether they go up or down. Maybe it's a place there is no gravity there. It's been designed that way. And so they're living in a bubble, you know, and they're about to step out into the real world and someone tells them, "You guys have been living in a bubble. That's not reality. It's just a place created like that." In the [snorts] real world, there's gravity. Like things are grounded. Like you don't press a button whether you want to go down and then press the button back to go up. like things that go up come down except you know the exceptionary laws that that the exceptionary situations rather that break that breaks the law within the head space you know and the person say yeah I don't care is about whatever I believe that is going to happen but that's not true what you believe doesn't count when truth is at play if you do not believe that there is gravity doesn't change the fact that there is and if you do something against that fact you are still doing it need for the fact because it is still going to have its effect and that's precisely the kind of place that truth holds and is the kind of place that the gospel holds in our life. So the place of the gospel in our lives is the place of truth and whether you accept it or not it still holds that place and that's what makes it all more important. You can't do anything against the gospel but for the gospel. That's the meaning. It says you can do nothing against the truth but for the truth. 2 Corinthians 13:8. And the gospel tells you Ephesians 1:13 that it is the word of truth. We can simply say in conclusion, you can do nothing against the gospel but for the gospel. You cannot do anything against the gospel. Whatever you do against the gospel is still for the gospel. Now that's your So the gospel is saying I'm always right. The gospel is saying you can't do anything against me but for me. All these are very huge claims. So the kind of place we ought to give to the gospel is not oh that's what I believed once to get saved. That's not the place we should give to the gospel. That's what I need when I want a solution to my problem. You're going to see where that comes into play. Particularly when it comes to solutions to problem relative to the gospel. There is really a place for that. Like answered prayers, the place of faith, the place of the power of God, the place of the supernatural. But that is not the primary place that the gospel holds. The primary place the gospel should hold in our life is that it is the truth. Now again there are people who might say yeah that's the place the gospel holds in my life. I believe the gospel is the truth. And you would hear people like that say things like the Bible says it. I believe it. That settles it. Like I just believe it's the truth. And they say how do you know it's the truth? Someone asks them. You know someone challenges them like how do you know the gospel is the truth? And they are like that's what I just know. I just know it. There's nothing you can tell me. I tell you that's not the kind of attitude we ought to have. And that is not the kind of way the gospel claims to be truth. It's not by some stubborn dogmatic insistent proclamation that it is claiming to be the truth. It claims to be the truth on grounds that it can prove itself to be the truth. And that's what makes all the difference. You know, that's what makes all the difference. The gospel is claiming to be truth on grounds that it can prove itself to be so. Let's just quickly recap and when we do we're now going to move forward. I said we are starting this podcast the very first episode with this subject matter the place of the gospel in your life and we then said that the place of the gospel in your life is the place of truth. We said the implication of that is that it is always right. Also the implication is that you can do nothing against it but for it. With all of this in mind you are faced with one problem. Am I sure the gospel is the truth? He's making all these claims. He's claiming it's always right. He's claiming I can do nothing against it but for it. Am I sure the gospel is the truth? Well, the answer is you are sure the gospel is the truth the same way you are sure every other thing is true. So let's use an example. I'm looking for an example that will work here. So say you are shown a phone and someone asks you the question, is that phone an iPhone or is it a Samsung? Are you going to know what it is? Or you saw two people debating, no that's an iPhone, no that's a you're like what's the big deal? Let's just confirm if it is. Now you want to know the truth. What do you do to know? You take the phone, you check the phone. What are you doing? You are observing with your senses. You are looking at the phone. Then you are thinking about it because you know what to expect of an iPhone and what to expect of a Samsung. So you take the phone, you're observing, but at the very same time you're observing, you're doing something else. You are thinking about it. We can just say this way. You are reasoning. So you're observing and you are reasoning at the same time. And then you're able to confirm. Come on. What's wrong with you guys? See, see the logo. See the name. Look at the interface. Look at all the functionalities. I mean, this is clearly maybe a Samsung or this is clearly an iPhone. I could use another example. You know, let's say there are about five of us in the room. You're one of the people in the room and you happen to have just gone out. So they were discussing and they say oh so so so person in that room is wearing a blue shirt and your mind is was not aver to the shirt the person was wearing before. What are you going to do to confirm? You're going to come back and check. Oh yeah yeah yeah that's blue person. What did you just do? You observed and you reasoned about it. Then you knew the truth. I'm going to show you that that's precisely precisely what we are told the gospel does. The gospel in claiming to be the truth is not simply imposing itself as the truth. It's saying that it's going to prove itself to be the truth. And therefore, we must give it that place of truth in our life because it proves itself to be the truth. The gospel is not simply imposing like yeah, you just have to do this. You just have to say you just have to accept this. He's saying I'm going to prove myself to be the truth. Hey, this so important. So I want you to appreciate the fact that the gospel is making this huge claim of being the truth and to respect that place that it has even as we're about to journey into seeing does it prove itself to be so. Let me just say something as an aside before we go to seeing that it proves itself to be truth. This claim of the gospel being truth is not only at the point of salvation. You know, in the same material of Ephesians, when Paul was speaking later down in the in the in the in the text, in the letter, in the epistle, he said in Ephesians 4:15, talking about the message that the church and its leadership should preach to the saints, he says they are speaking the truth in love. Ephesians 4:15. Some argue it means to be truthful in love. And that's still fine. But being truthful means what they are speaking is the truth. You see the same thing Ephesians 4 and verse 20. You have not so learned Christ. Indeed you have heard him have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. So consistently across the spectrum of this message of the gospel both at salvation and proceeding from salvation to our growth our work to what the church is doing everything in this Christian message is saying screaming out to us I'm the truth and you got to respect my place as truth. If you are not mindful of me as truth, if you do not accept me as truth and you act other than that fact that I'm the truth, you might be acting in a way that will cost you. Yeah, I like to use this example. It's like you are going into a field and they tell you that there are minds there. That's the truth. If you are no longer mindful of the fact that there are mines in some places, it could cost you. So you are not walking as mindful of the truth and that's going to cost you something because again don't forget you can do nothing against the truth but for the truth. Now let's get into it. All the boast of the gospel of being the truth comes down to one thing. It has to prove itself to be so. That means what it is saying as the truth, the claims he's making as the truth, it must prove itself indeed on those claims it is making. And I'll tell you, it's making about five claims that we need it to prove itself on. Five claims we need the gospel to prove itself on. And where we are going to begin in seeing the claims that the gospel makes which it says is going to prove by observation and reason is from Romans and in chapter 1. So I want you to turn your Bibles Romans chapter 1 as we dive into it. The gospel is saying is the truth. Is it going to prove itself so? And what's going to be the implication and why this is important is because some of the things it's going to prove itself to be true on are things that are so fundamental to your life. Number one, why you are here. It's going to say I'm going to tell you the truth about why you are here. It's going to tell you truth about who you are. Now, that's not where we're starting from. I'm saying there are major things he's going to reveal that I want you to be aware of while you are here, who you are, how you're supposed to walk, precisely how you do that to ensure that you fulfill that purpose for which you are here. So, with all these big issues that is how to answer and that it claims to be the truth on, you cannot afford not to pay attention to the claims he's making and how it proves itself. so to be truth. And we're going to get into that starting with our text Romans and in chapter one. Turn your Bibles there. Romans chapter 1 and I'm going to begin with verse 16. Are you ready? Romans chapter 1 and verse 16. &gt;&gt;
