---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Most Important Question"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CBxSbQ6wGng
---

# The Most Important Question

In this video, we're going to be answering what is the most important question that you need answered. And that is why you need to believe the gospel. Now, now if you are someone that has been confronted with the gospel before, you're wondering why do I have to believe it? Some might have presented a case to you and you might have been satisfied or not. Who knows? So, why do you need to believe the gospel? And even more so right now, why is there this sense of urgency to believe in the gospel? And the answer is this is because the gospel claims to be the truth on salvation or the truth of salvation. And moment you start to talk about salvation, you already are talking about danger or you are talking about a problem or you're talking about a situation that is to be avoided, something to be averted, something to be delivered from. And that's why it's so urgent, that's why it's so important that you hear out what the gospel has to say. And more so when you see it to be the truth, you immediately take that action to accept it. So if the gospel claims to be the truth of salvation, the real question here is salvation from what? Well, it is salvation from the common problem that affect all humanity which we can all see. You know when something is truth it means is such that everybody should be able to see it. You can observe and you can reason that it is there. You know it's like someone saying well there's a book on this table. By observation and reason there is a book on this table. If we are saying there's a problem we are to be saved from it must be obvious observable that we can see and we can reason that there's really this problem that we are to be saved from. So what is the problem that we are to be saved from? that is so urgent and important that you need to believe it. Now Bible calls that problem sin. Now the problem is this. You already have ideas about what sin is which is not exactly what we are talking about yet. Sin in this case is not the actions and the conducts that people do. Sin simply means a state that is contrary to what ought to be. I'll take it again. A state contrary to what ought to be. Another way we can just describe sin in this sense is sin is contradiction on what should be. Now it could be in different ways you know. So if someone is meant to be healthy or if people are meant to be healthy and they are sick then that sickness is a state or condition of sin something contrary to what should be. If we see someone that is dead, the reason why death carries this oddity in our minds is because when we witness that we are aware this person had life before and this state of death is contrary to what should be. And yes, I deliberately use that description because in God's word the description of life and death as well as light and darkness is used to communicate what sin is. When we see death, we are aware that life is what is original and was initially present. But that life is gone. Now this being person, this animal whatever it may be is without life is there. And we see darkness. We are aware that the or was initially light and now the light is gone. And that's why we are witnessing a state of darkness. The claims of the gospel is that we are living in a world where there is the bondage of sin. where there is a condition we are all bound under that is contrary to what should be and even more what originally was. Right? If you see death, it means there originally was life. You can't never have death if there wasn't initially originally life. The same way if you see darkness is because there originally was light. There can't be darkness if there wasn't initially first originally light. So the claims that there is seen is that there was originally a state of life, of light, of good and something has messed up with that state and has brought us to the contradiction of sin, of death, of darkness and evil and all of us are bound under that situation requiring salvation from it without which we are going to fully experience the effect of it. Think about this this way. When someone dies, the person already was dying, being mortal, we are growing old, aging away onto eventually that physical death. So if one is still under the condition of death, darkness and sin in this world, it's beyond just the effect in physical death. It means the person is progressing all the way into an eventual death, damnation, destruction, which is not what is desired by God. And that brings us to the message we are presenting. What was the original state of our world? Well, the claims of the scripture as we can see is that when we look at the world and see a world of death, of evil, and of darkness, it points to the fact that there was initially life, light, goodness, righteousness, truth. But now there's now a condition of falsehood, a condition of death, a condition of darkness, a condition of evil, a condition of pain, a condition of suffering. that is contrary to what is original or what should be. How did this happen? That's a separate question because there'll be a lot to unpack there. But the issue is there is this bondage. Something has happened that has pushed back the life, pushed back the light. If you are in a situation of danger and about to perish, your greatest concern is not how did it come to be, but how are we coming out of this? And how can we come out of this situation? There's only one way. Where there is death, you need to bring back life. There is darkness. If you bring the light in, the darkness is dispelled. So the only way that we can be saved from this common condition that all humanity is found under is by the light entering into this work of darkness, which means that which was original and initial, entering into this subsequent state to fix it. And in this case, we are talking about God. A world that has gone off where we are witnessing sin and death and darkness. In many ways we witness this contradiction in beliefs. Now we are witnessing a world of falsehood. We witness this contradiction in conduct. We find ourselves all of us do things that we know this is not exactly what is right. But yet we find time and again do things that we recognize to be wrong because of a bondage a reign of sin and death. What about in nature? We see this contradiction in nature. So that even a child that is not yet found in any particular conduct of good and evil can suffer some of the implications of the wrong in nature is why we witness people who are born with certain conditions that we know ought not to be. What's the end of all of this? We need salvation. It can't be by our conduct because the problem is beyond our conduct. We need salvation from the situation, from the condition, from the circumstance, from the inherent problem of sin, death and darkness. Only God, light, life and good can provide this salvation. And that's why God determines to save us by becoming a man. And he's entering into this condition in his fullest. The fullest expression of creation is humanity. We at the very end point of it. And so he enters into the condition in his fullest that he may bear the consequences of what we have caused because he must do a redemption or salvation that is just that is legitimate. So he fully bears the consequences of sin of death and darkness and his resurrection ising to us. He has accomplished all that is necessary to set us free. So when you believe in the death and resurrection of Jesus, you are believing in the word of truth of the gospel as Paul calls Ephesians 1:13 that there is the need of salvation that we cannot save ourselves. That only that light that shines in darkness, only that light that enters into death can dispel this darkness, can remove this death and bring us back into God's purpose. When you believe in the death and resurrection of Jesus, you are believing in that truth that is not only philosophically necessary, but that is prophetically promised and patterned and has been historically fulfilled in the person of Jesus. If you believe in that that you need salvation that only God can accomplish and that he has accomplished it in the death and resurrection of Jesus, I just want you to express that faith you have in your heart with the words of your mouth by saying this with me. Say, I recognize today that I need salvation. I need redemption. There is a problem I cannot solve by my good conduct, by my good deeds, by myself. Only God who is the self-existent can solve it. And I'm grateful that he has by becoming a man and bearing justly all that is the consequence of this bondage of sin and being raised from the dead for my salvation. I receive that salvific work, that work of salvation, that work of redemption that Christ has done for me. Amen. All right. I'm glad if you have done that, you are saved. And if you have, we have things to help you on your journey. You can simply follow the directions that will be shown you on the screen. And with that, you'll get the help that you need to continue your work strongly in God's purpose. Thank you.
