---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 10)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2QBH5MPoIEY
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 10)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Welcome to another episode of Pleos podcast, your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. And our study has been on that very subject matter, God's purpose, the reality of God's purpose. And just trying to make it clear why exactly you're on earth. There's nothing more important for the believer to settle than the truth of his existence. And the first part can be, oh, how come I'm here in the first place? And the root of that the the root answer to that question is because there is God. There's a self-existent being who has made the world. And that's fine. But why did he make me? So there's a question of purpose. But before then we always have to answer. How come the world is this way? You know, how come there's a contradiction in the world for which we now need a redemption which is what the gospel's message then centers on after telling us about the reality of God. So if you have believed the message of the gospel then I mean you have believed the reality of God and the reality of redemption which is what makes up the message of the gospel. Clearly your greatest burden should be what is God's purpose? Why am I here? What does he want me to do? Because all right he has a reason he made me and whatever has gone wrong he has redeemed me from it via the work Christ has done. So what's now? What's to be done? What's next? What's what's up? Amen. The answer to that is something he reveals to us. We have seen that is sunship. Ephesians 1:9, Ephesians 15. And we have explained that sunship is to be God's child and God's heir. Romans 8:15-17. And being an air of God means there is a lot that is assigned to you. The word claronomous of course the related here is claronomous but they are related words. We have the word claronomia which is inheritance. We have the word claronomio which is to inherit. So all these are playing out to one end two words are there right? There's claros which is a lot of the portion in question. So it could be a land it could be anything and someone is giving you a could be a business could be a car could be a house could could be anything and the person owns something a lot and is giving it to another. The second part of the word which which is nomos nom is also from where we get the word for law is something ordered instructed laid down assigned stated out etc. So I believe the best word that can help under help us communicate what inheritance or being a here is about will be the word assign. It's like if someone says you are to do this you are to do that the person is ordering but the person is assigning responsibilities. So assigning will be a good way to think of that word claronomial. Claronomia claronomous in this sense. So God assigns lots to people and in this sense we can just say we have assignments. So in God's purpose we are not just children of ease by nature. We are also hairs those who have been assigned things to do. So we have assignments that we are to do and this is baked into the understanding of God's purpose. I think it's important to mention some things and not by not with intention of being polical even though it seems inevitable everybody particularly when you're discussing anything that is a truth claim has to be polical because on that same on the very matter that you're making a claim on there are many other opposing claims but we need to be strict when we speak about what God's purpose is there are many times you find by good intention I believe of preachers people give different ideas about God's purpose and when we give some of those ideas they are likely to eat a wall at a point a wall of dissatisfaction for people as they think further in a way that they start to feel a sense of uncertainty and dissatisfaction with the answers they have gotten let me give an example sometimes you ask people what is God's purpose and they say to know Jesus sometimes people say to know Jesus and to make Jesus known as noble as it sounds and I mean it sounds very nice it almost seems like it seems even sinful just to try to say well that is really not what God's purpose at his core, but it is not what God's purpose is at his core. And to say, oh, God just made us from the scratch to know Jesus and to make him known. It's is not being honest with the entire account. So, I do believe and to be careful here that people who say this mean zero harm and say it with absolute best intention and I think they are just fantastic people. I just think that it starts to eat some form of roadblock by time we start to appreciate the redemptive role of the Lord Jesus and that God's purpose preceded that redemptive role that the Lord Jesus played by function of God's funed predestination of salvation etc. So there is a need for us to be a little bit straight when we say what is God's purpose and give the very honest answer. This is what was on God's mind sunship and this is what it means that we are God's children and we are God's heirs and to appreciate that as his children we are to fellowship with him and we are to walk in his nature and character and also to appreciate that as his heirs we have assignments given to us. The question then what are the assignments given to us and we have explained that we have a natural assignment we have looked at text on that Colossians 3 Ephesians 6 1 Corinthians 7 as well but then we have another assignment that is really important in fact by virtue of the value of this assignment it is priority now let me explain a natural assignment is thought that all the labors we have in the natural would eventually I mean they are so good for this time the Lord wants us to do it they are noble the positive of them both from the heart from which we do it and the satisfaction that they give temporarily in this world bringing help healing to people etc. Let's just leave it that way. But then the world is still all going to come to an end as it is right before it is redeemed to the new heavens and new earth. Of course, the service of people born out of faith in God, faith in Christ Jesus will not go unrewarded. It's the Lord's work and they will be rewarded. But the blessing that they had to people that have not received the gospel I mean it sort of it pales in comparison to the fact that people need to receive the gospel that is if they are not saved they have not received redemption they are going to be damned. So just by virtue of the value if you break an egg and you break the screen of someone's iPhone or another iron phone you broke two valuable things but one is more valuable. By virtue of prior of of value, the priority is on this assignment we are discussing which is our spiritual assignment to establish our spiritual assignment that we are saying there is such a thing as a spiritual inheritance. Just as much as we said that there is a natural inheritance we've seen a couple of things. We saw Acts chapter 1 17 and 25. And speaking of Judas, it was said that someone is to take his part in the ministry that the Lord has given to the 12. The ministry of the apostleship the Lord has given to us. So I was establishing from that text the general principle that ministry is explained as an inheritance that God all lots lots of off to people. Right? Ministry is thought of as an inheritance that God allot to people. So ministry can be thought of as an inheritance that God has and that he all lots out of the same to people. So it can give you a share of what he's trying to do in ministry. And that's the picture that is being painted. Now I said at the point of acts one you could say well that maybe is only for the 12 but that will not be correct. And I said in Acts 8 we notice that the very same word lot is parallel with another word part. Meos and they have the same implication. part is meos a part of a whole and lot has a similar idea you know a portion that is given to someone now I said we'll find that that word meos particularly is used to speak of the body of Christ and of believers role in ministry and the first text I took us to was 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 27 Paul there says now you are the body of Christ and members individually the word individually there is members of a part. So you are not the whole body. You are a member of a part. That means you're just a part as a member. Let's put it that way. So you plural are the body of Christ. And each of you are members of a part. You make up a part as a member. But you would see that the ministry thought was a major thought in this discussion. If you read 1 Corinthians 12 and verse 4 5 and 6, you will see the discussion on gifts of the spirit, then ministries, body of Christ of the Lord, and then the operations of the gifts in the ministries. So 1 Corinthians 12:5 says there are differences of ministries but the same Lord. So we see ministries at play and say different ministries and this understanding of ministries is sort of parallel to the understanding of members individually of the body that cumulatively make up the entire body of Christ. Let me just show you one more text before we go to a text that will give us clarity and better clarity I should say on this. 1 Corinthians 12 and 12 says the body is one and has many members but all the members but all the members of that one body being many are one body so also is Christ. So the body has many members but is one body so also is Christ. And he now says in verse 14 for in fact the body is not one member but many. All right because I'm here let's look at Romans 12 before we go to Ephesians 4. Romans 12 in verse 4. But as we have many members in one body but all the members do not have the same function. So we being many are one body in Christ and individually members one of another. So each of us are members in the body and ministries at play in this fact that we are members in the body that we are a part that we are a part in the body. All right clarist text on this probably would be Ephesians chapter 4. Let's go there. I'll read verse 16. I'm reading like in the middle of a lot of discussion. So it might seem a bit confusing when I read now but when I explain it it's going to become clearer to us. From whom the whole body joined and knit together by so now the from whom is actually saying from Christ. If you read the pretext verse 15 you'll see that. So from Christ the whole body is joined and knit together. So every part of the body is connected with Christ is joined and knit together by whatever joint supplies. For once of time I can't explain but the word it can be better translated by the supply of every ligament. So we are all joined to Christ because there's a supply of ligaments that we joins two bones together that makes this possible. So by the supply of every ligament, how does the supply of ligaments happen? According to the effectual working by which every part and I tell you that word again is the word meos does its share causes the growth of the body in the divine observing love. N of us become connected with the body of Christ because every part of the body is doing his own share of what? Ministry. How do we know? Verse 12, it says we are to be perfected as saints for the work of ministry for the edifying of the body of Christ. And if you read from 13 to 15, it was explaining the perfection of the saints. Then 16 started talking about the implication of the perfecting of the saints which is doing your own part which is ministry. Right? So you are perfected as a saint to do the work of ministry. You are doing your part which is the ministry causing other people to be joined to the body which is causing the growth of the body. So Ephesians 4:12 says you are perfected as a saint to do the work of ministry to edify the body. Then Ephesians 4:16 is saying hm after you've been perfected which is verse 13 to 15. You will do your part and cause the growth of the body because you are adding other people by supplying that ligament which is God's word, God's spirit for their growth, for their salvation, for their participation in the body of Christ. You are a part and you have a ministry. That's what that text is saying. And there are other things to show you from here like Ephesians 4:7. And that will lead us to another text, but we're going to wrap it up here today. And I affirm the fact that we each of us have a spiritual assignment just as we have a natural assignment that God has been on to us. You have a spiritual assignment and you need to get into it. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
