---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 8)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waPAaS6X1d4
---

# How to Fulfill God's Purpose (Part 8)

Welcome to Plar [music] Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor [music] Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome back to Lar Ro podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. Presently, we are looking at how to fulfill God's purpose. Right? And we are doing that because we have already seen what God's purpose is. We have seen the pursuit or journey of God's purpose. But we're looking at an important factor which is how do we fulfill God's purpose? It's by growth, right? Um and we're trying to explain how that happens. [snorts] Now just to recall we have seen that God's purpose for our life is sunship which is to be his child and to be his heir. Secondly we have seen the journey of that purpose. Right? So if I'm God's child I'm God's he how do I carry out what he has called me to do. For being God's child we have all we the journey of that is something eternally maintained which we maintain a devotional life. We maintain our fellowship with the father which is also a place of growth. We grow stronger in our in um we grow stronger to walk in our nature and our character. But then we are hes of God. He has given to us things to fulfill. How do we carry that out? We saw the journey we have as of God. If you recall for our natural assignment, we start where we are. Then we take advantage of opportunities that come to us. Then we use this world without misusing it. which means we can pursue our desires where we have the opportunity to or where we get to such a stage or such a phase. And then we saw we must be open to the leading of the spirit. And lastly, we must be maximally productive. The very instruction of God's word about how to do our natural assignments, our natural assignment, I'm sorry, is for us to be maximally productive. In fact, it was the general council of the the um preacher in Ecclesiastes. We understand that it was quite he was speaking from a very across standpoint. He said whatsoever you had friends to do it with all diligence. Um but by the time you get to proverbs as well you see repeated call for diligence. And in the epistles the same thing is taught. So it's not just what a naturalistic person would say that well after after his words we don't know whether there's anything else. So just do whatever you want to do in this world. Well, that's the standpoint the preacher was speaking from, which is in Ecclesiastes 9:10. But we have instruction for those of us who are not struggling with the vanity of existentialism. Um, [snorts] but recognize the revelation of God's purpose. We have instruction to take seriously our natural assignment because it's not just your opportunity to work, do it well, is this is meaningful. This is part of what we are made to do. This is part of our assignment. And so, in that seriousness, we do that. we'll see why the gospel has the place it has in our life because without that um place of the purpose and meaning that the gospel gives us on the confidence of truth not just my me assertion without that we are going to always be easily shaken about what whether what we're doing is valuable or not but with the confidence that oh this is about God's purpose for our life we can seriously and with all dedication commit to pursuing the assignments that we have in our ends. All right guys, so with that we have established we have this natural assignment. We have a spiritual assignment. God's assignment for us spiritually is very important is something that we have the will, the desire, the passion to do because we are born of God. His spirit is at work in us both to will and to do of his good pleasure. So you have the desire to propagate and to spread the gospel. You know what? One of the first ways to put that desire to work as a believer is to pray. That's the truth. Is to pray. That means you pray about God's kingdom, you know, um being manifest on earth. If I could use it that way, that thy kingdom come, which is the reign of your kingdom, the presence of your kingdom, that means it's being much more present in much more places. You are praying about that. That's the first step, you know, stirring up that desire for your spiritual assignment. Oh, there's so much darkness. I I don't know whether some people are aware, maybe they are shut up in a bubble that there's really so much darkness out there. There are people that are bound by different ills and evils and contradictions that clearly are not of God. They are not original. There's really something wrong with our world. And that which is wrong has been solved in the work that Jesus has done in redemption. And it's not going to be just by behavioral modification that people are made right. They need the gospel. And so we we should pray for the spread of the gospel. We should combat the contradiction that is being manned by the enemy, the devil and his court. Um the intelligence that is spreading much more evil and darkness. You should pray. That's how you stir up your desires. Um to carry out your spiritual assignments. You know, you should pray. You should preach by every means. And by preach, you are supposed to communicate verbally the gospel to people equally. You can publicize it, publicize it by every other medium available to you online and offline. You could share a trap with someone. You could share a flyer that directs someone to a place that could hear God's word, whether a website or even a meeting, you know. You could what else could you do? You could share it on your social media, your WhatsApp status, Facebook, Instagram, all of those. He could just share a content, you know, that just reflects the gospel. [snorts] It may not be all that you share on your timeline. You you should do your natural assignment. And now your person shows up in a virtual way in this age and time that we're in. So um just like your person shows up in in shows up physically and maybe a substantial part of time is show up physically, you're doing your natural assignment. You wake up in the morning, you go to work about 9 hours per your natural assignment, you will show up virtually as well in quite a similar manner, right? As a responsible person, but yet you should show up virtually with your faith um or with your spiritual assignment. I'm not saying you should go and use your business, but that one is just not the it's probably not the wise thing to do. But you should as a person be able to show up and oh put out your faith or direct people to the faith or share the heart of the gospel or the burden about the condition of the world and the need for salvation you know um as you are opportuned to all right so you should pray you should preach and publicize the gospel and you should give as well to support causes that are furthering the mission of the gospel now all of that said our focus we have to run back and spend some time talking about something else is on how do we fulfill it? How do I grow my spiritual assignment? How do I do my natural assignment? What does it take for me to get to the point where I'm as effective as I ought to be to do all that God wants me to do? You remember example, someone is meant to carry two heavy um two bags of a very heavy load. Let's just put it like that. Could be cement, could be something else. and you look at it like, man, if I'm going to carry this thing for a 500 m distance or a 1,000 m distance, I am not sure I can do it with the stature that I have right now. So, the person hits the gym, gets a personal trainer, and builds themsel to the point where they are not able to do what they're trying to do. I'm sorry. Well, it's the same thing with God's purpose, right? When we look at the weight of the what we're supposed to do in God's purpose, we may and we should at the beginning realize that we are not yet fit to do exactly what we are meant to do. And we we need the training. We need the discipline. We need the um perfecting, the disciplehip that makes it possible for us to do precisely what the Lord will have us do. When we recognize that need this training for us spiritually, the Bible describes it as disciplehip or the perfecting of the saints. Ephesians chapter 4:12, Paul says we need to be perfected as saints till we come to the unity of the faith, knowledge of son of God. Right? So those first two are talking about knowledge. But the last two say we need to come to the perfect man, the measure of the stat stature of the fullness of Christ. So that one is describing a point of growth, a point in stature that we are meant to arrive at. So we need knowledge and that knowledge must produce a stature in us. Now it is clear from this particular text Ephesians 4 that what God is trying to do is about our mind. Ephesians 4:17 19 to19 right after everything I just mentioned which is Ephesians 4 11-16 shows us that the mind is the issue. The mind of the believer is the issue. You'll notice verse 17 was all the way to 19 says um it speaks about the futility of the mind. It speaks about the ignorance that is on people's mind. It speaks about the understanding being darkened. You can see everything is the domain of the mind except one where he said you are alienated from the or those people are alienated from the life of God. Talking about those who haven't received the gospel. So they are without the life or the nature or the light of God. Right? So but the mind becomes the focus. The mind is futile. The understanding is darkened. They are ignorant of what they should know. Um they they have a blindness. Their hearts are their hearts are blind. So it's not seeing reality or truth as it should. What should be on their mind? Ephesians 4:20 tells us that the truth that we find in Christ is what should be on our mind. And he specifies what particular truth should be on our mind, which we can say is specifying the end point of the knowledge of God's word. And it shows us that's the new creation. You know the entirety of God's word is such that when we learn everything we learn in God's word, we learn about the truth of God. We answer the existential and metaphysical questions that lead us to the conclusion of God. When we learn the um the the need for salvation and redemption fulfilled in Jesus, we learn about the person of Christ, his divinity and humanity. We learn about the nature of that redemption he has done. How he did a spiritual work behind the physical work he did and how it has given us to us the forgiveness of sins. We learn I mean we keep learning all these different things if it does not terminate in the reality of the new creation. I'm telling you it's going to be sad because you could be so confident about the faith but it will mean nothing in your walk. Right? So we need all of these truths to give us stability. Right? But without terminating at this is who we are in Christ, we are going to have stability and certainty of what we believe, but we are not going to have a tangible work in the light of what we believe. And that's more God's desire. So when Paul tells us about that which the teaching of the church should do to our mind, he simply zooms in and focus on the end goal on the end point on this truth of who we are in Christ Jesus. And I said the knowledge of who we are is not exactly what makes for our growth. It's prerequisite to our growth. Now I want us to see a text Romans and chapter 6. This is one text where it becomes very clear, very evident that it's one thing, it's one thing to know who we are, to receive that knowledge, it's another thing to grow in the light of that knowledge to walk in it. And it's going to lead me to the core word we are using in our introduction when we say the your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. So, we're going to get to that. In Romans 6 and verse one, Paul says, "What shall I say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Now continue in sin here means you are still in the state of sin. You are still under the reign and the dominion of sin, death and darkness which means you still have the nature and you are still doing the conduct. So all of that is within that simple statement. Shall we continue in sin that grace me abound? And it's like that makes no sense. What Christ did is not just forgive our sins was literally take us out of the reign of sin. So that the work of Christ means you are not continuing in sin. You are not under his reign. You do not have his nature and therefore it affects your conduct. Right? So he says certainly not. How shall we who died to sin? You can see you died to sin. How shall we live any longer in his you? You are completely out of his reign. The work Christ did has ended our relationship with sin as a as a state as an authority as a domain. Right? And shall we who die to sin live any longer in it? Or do you not know as many of us as were baptized into Christ were baptized into his death? Now what I want you to notice is verse three where he says or do you not know you can notice this a rhetorical question because he's saying that you know like don't you know that as many of us as were baptized into Christ were baptized into his death but he's also implying something the first question is coming from a sense of a sense of this one has happened to them right or a sense of let's use the word confusion that they experiencing like yeah we know that we have died to sin Oh, what's going on? Let's put it like that. So, they're having this experience that is bringing some form of contradiction to their mind. But he's saying what you know is true, but there's something else we should we should know about that. Do you not know as many of us as were baptized Christ were baptized into his death. You read downwards to verse six. He says, "Knowing this, we know that our old man has been crucified with Christ that the body of sin may be done away with." In fact, verse 9 again will say, we say, "Knowing that Christ having been raised from the dead dies no more. death no longer has dominion over him. Verse 10, for the death he died, he died to sin sin once and for all. The life he lives, he lives to God. Now, having emphasized that we know this or we ought to know this. Verse 11 then says something very important. He says, "Likewise, you also reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus." Notice your knowing is not reckoning. Your knowing is just knowing. But there's something else said to do to recon. By the time you get to verse 13, it will describe that word recon as present. A word is going to use in Romans 12 as well to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. A word is going to use in verse two of Romans 12 or a a word we'll be pointing to from verse two of Romans 12, which is renew your mind so that you are transformed. And we're going to open all of these up in the next session. next episode where we're going to see, you know, what does it mean to reckon? What does it mean to present? What does it mean our minds are renewed so that we can be transformed to fulfill God's purpose. Catch you on that one. one. &gt;&gt;
