---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 7)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qs05-1kaBV4
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 7)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, brothers and sisters. Welcome to Ply Rose podcast yet again. The daily dose of God's word transforming you. I trust is doing that to fulfill God's purpose. I don't think you should be lost about what God's purpose is. If you are following the podcast by now, you should know that God's purpose is sunship. And I'm going to ensure that we make some massive progress in that regard. In this episode, we've seen God's purpose to be sunship. Sunship we have seen in Romans 8:15 downwards to 17. Let me take it a little backwards. We have seen gospels to be sunship from Ephesians 1:9 and Ephesians 15. Right? Just in case anyone needs a reminder. Then we have seen what sunship means. Romans 8:15-17. One of the best places to explain what it means. Paul says we receive the spirit of sunship wherever we cry above father. And then he points out that the reality of that spirit is that we are children of God. And on that premise, we are hairs of God. Trent hairs with Christ. So two realities make up sunship. One, we are children of God. And two, we are hairs of God. So remember that when it comes to purpose like we said you can only find out by revelation and I said you have to prize objective revelation over and above personal revelation which is subjective. So and the objective revelation is the direct revelation we have from God and the trusted authoritative document for that is the Bible for reasons we have explained. You could also find more reasons on that like more explanation on that on pleos.org. so many teachings to help you there and probably preferably if you can do the pleos perfecting course which you see under the fulfill purpose section is going to really really transform your life for good. Now, but back to what we're saying. So, as children of God, what are we meant to do in that in that regard? We are meant to fellowship with our father and walk in his nature and character. But the part of the equation that really has to do with pursuit is the fact that we're heads of God. And there's no doubt that we all as humans recognize that fact that we have this sense of a pursuit in us. There is that sense that is in everyone where you're like, why am I here? What am I supposed to do? What am I supposed to get done? You know, what can I do this? what am I supposed to fulfill? So there's this sense of fulfillment, this sense of achievement is a wiring almost you can say and you'll be right because running across scripture is this designed by God for us to do something. If you are reading Genesis 1 and 26, it says have dominion. You can see there's something to do. Now that might require some interpretation to know exactly how that's meant to be that's meant to play out for you. But there is without doubt the need for uh there's without doubt the wiring the design for us to pursue something and to fulfill that that God has for us. In fact with the Lord Jesus we saw that as well. He said my mate is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish it. Paul is al also going to speak similarly and lucky us both for Jesus and Paul we saw them tell us I have finished what you sent me to do. John 17 I believe verse 2. The Lord said that Paul will say that 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 7. And really that's like the greatest feeling one can have. I mean there's the feeling of lack of pain. There's the feeling of pleasures of all kinds in this world. There are so many kinds of feelings that can that we can long for. But I don't think there's anything more satisfying. You can tell this if you have related with people who have grown up to very elderly age and probably even about to pass that at that crossroad there is the concern. Have I objectively done what I should have done? I mean I've lived out a whole lifetime but can I go with that sense that I've really done did it really matter the things that I did and I don't think the right time to ask that question is at the end you know that's very wrong time that's the time you should be saying I have failed it like Lord Jesus like Paul but really we find people get to that point and feel that way have I done what I should have done really what was this all about and sometimes as humans we can psych ourselves up to say well I think I what I knew to do. I think I should be fine. I think it's okay what I've done. But do we have that satisfaction that objectively and truly we have done what we are meant to do? So as a matter of truth, do we recognize what God's purposes? Well, for you, thankfully, you do on grounds that we have stated. Remember how we went all the way from the place of the gospel in your life, which is truth. So if you don't have that foundation of the truth that builds up to now the revelation of that truth about purpose, you are going to be like on shaky grounds. But you do. You have seen God's purpose now is sunship and you're an air in that fact. And as in hair it means things are assigned to you. We have been seeing one of the things assigned to us in Colossians 3 22 all the way 4:1 that our natural work which can be our career our natural work because he said born servants right it's talking about their employment their career path that they are taking. It could also be for some people like being a student functioning in that space in the academic space as a student learning building yourself for the role you are going to play in the society which of course the place of apprenticeship and internship was present at that time as well and you would be bundled in this group of bond servants where you are finding a work the lord has allotted to you to do. So he's saying whatever we find ourselves to do in natural whether it's our career or is our business or we might be functioning as freelancers it doesn't matter times change but the principles stay the same whatever your natural work is is given to you by God Colossians 3:24 knowing that from the Lord you receive the reward told you that word reward is remmoneration giving you what corresponds to give what corresponds that what antipodidos is you have that word anti as corresponding not against in that case I mean answer can be against but in this case it's corresponding then you have that word about someone giving you know so they are giving you what corresponds to what or the lord rather is the one giving you what corresponds to what you have done you receive the remuneration of the inheritance notice this is the inheritance and he's speaking about the inheritance relative to your personal work but uses that word the inheritance it's a part a the natural assignment is the inheritance the lord gives to every is one inheritance one class of inheritance the lord gives to everybody body. So I want you to say I have a natural assignment given to me by God. You know it's very important. You must have that precise recognition that what you're doing in the natural is not just your idea. Now say a man is not has not received the gospel is not born again. He's still doing what would ordinarily have been God's assignment to him in the natural. Unfortunately he would be unable to do it with the right heart, spirit and attitude with which is meant to. Right. So but notwithstanding it is still God's design for the individual as much as you has received redemption in Christ Jesus that what you do in the natural is his allotment to you and it calls for your faithfulness to that work. So there is a natural assignment the Lord has given to you. You are serving not your boss it says but the Lord Christ. It's so important. And I feel so grieved when I see the attitude of believers because they working in a certain place and their boss is probably not the best of bosses and is acting this way and that. I'm telling you Paul was very much aware of that Peter as well of these kind of people. You see Peter comment comment about it and indeed you have a right to choose like today the conditions are way better. We're going to see text on that. You have a right to choose what's what is best for you. But at the instance you are there do your service to the Lord faithfully most productively you have no right to act lazy lacadasical indifferent because of anybody else that work is God's work as long as it's good it's not evil like if it's evil all of you involved are just wrong like Ephesians 4:28 says let him that stole steal no more rather let him work with his hands that which is good now if what you're doing is good it doesn't matter the toxicity of the persons at work as well as the boss if you are still there do it as unto the Lord. Now if toxicity is sort of guess to you which is valid reason for you to make a change you can but whilst you serve anywhere it's the law's work you have no right to treat it with any form of laziness or seriousness on the premise that it's going to be to the benefit of that person it is to the benefit of God's world's cosmos you are doing your part righteousness good life light in this world please let us understand that now let me show you another text on this matter Ephesians and in chapter 6 it's a very bad testimony that the man in Christ who should have understanding of the truth of the world the truth of God not talking about the world like worldliness the truth of our existence is what I mean is the one found not being faithful and most productive in this world it makes no sense whatsoever Ephesians 6 and verse 5 says born servants be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling in sincerity of heart as to Christ not with eye service as men pleasers but as born servants of Christ that mean you are doing regarding them as you would do Christ not because of them that is you are not doing with eyes so that they are just pleased you are doing it as bonder servants of Christ that is you are act you know the same way you regard like maybe your spiritual leader your pastor like you would honor Christ you are honoring them that way because he's the one that put them there is precisely what he's saying because the Lord is the one who put them there they are serving his role and his function on the earth whatever the case may And now you are serving under them. You give them that regard, honor and respect because you are a bond servant of Christ. Right? So it says not with eyes as men pleasers but as bond servants of Christ doing the will of God on the earth. Do you notice the word you are doing the will of God from the earth. The other text said is an inheritance. Why is he saying that? Because it is understood that God's purpose and will is being his hair. Right? So he used the word inheritance here. And in this case he's saying you are doing the will of God. You are doing the purpose of God. What God wants from the earth. That's what you're supposed to do with good will doing service as to the Lord and not to men knowing that whatever good anyone does he receive the same from the Lord whether he's slave or free. Then verse 9, do you notice whether a slave or free? So in this context, the bond servant I said I was going to point out this to us in other text. The born servants might be slaves and might be free and the being slaves there please we must be careful because it's not probably the same as the way we understand slavery in our more recent history. Even though the conditions are still not probably things that would endorse today notwithstanding but born servants there captures the entire category of what we call today an employee right in this case being a slave can be somewhat with the idea of an indentured servant that means someone trying to pay his debt and so the person is not at liberty to simply choose to work or not has to work on like free that can say he's no longer working but this person is bound to work but there were other conditions of being a slave too that were not good but the the truth of natural assignment as being God's design is still being taught and I want you to notice that. I'll read lastly Ephesians 6 and9 that is within this text. I'm still going to read one more text which will not exhaust today but would lead to the next one. Ephesians 6 and9 says you and you masters do the same things to them giving up threatening. So he's saying you masters do the same things to them. I don't know if you got that but doing the same things to them is that you are not acting towards them as any other thing but as born servants of Christ doing the will of God from the heart and also doing good with good will the rules are the same do the same things to them giving up threatenings knowing that your own master also is in heaven and there is no partiality with him but what you do in the natural is part of God's purpose for your life let us is very serious about that like you have a natural assignment you you'd better wake up to it. What you are doing in natural is part of God's purpose for your life. Let me say it that way. I don't know if you saw it, but you are going to be judged for what you do in natural. You are going to be rewarded or lose your rewards for what you do in natural. The idea that oh because unbelievers are doing it means you are it matters not as much as what they don't do like our spiritual assignment. Of course, our spiritual assignment is priority by virtue of its implication. It has eternal implication like in very directly so. But even this is going to be judged and affects our reward as we enter into the eternal state. Please respect your natural assignment as part of God's purpose for your life as God's assignments to you. The last text we are meant to see is 1 Corinthians chapter 7, but we can't really get into it as much today. Let's just open there. I give a simple commentary and we are going to pick it up from there in the very next session. 1 Corinthians 7:17 says, "But as God has distributed to each one, as God has called each one, so let him walk." Now, this text is important because he's going to show us some things. I won't be able to go into much detail on it just yet because I want us to see our spiritual assignment before doing that. But just an introduction, you will see him talk about our work in verse 20 downwards. For now, we're going to end it. Catch you on the next one. You're blessed. See you. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. [music] To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your [music] questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. [music] Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles [music] at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in [music] his purpose.
