---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 1)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=28Q0bMLZnSg
---

# The Pursuit of God's Purpose (Part 1)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. Brothers and sisters, welcome to another episode of Plarus podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. Now, we're moving on to some further studies within God's purpose. We have seen from our studies the place of the gospel in our life where we saw that the gospel holds the place of truth in our lives. And from seeing that place of truth that the gospel is we saw the reality of God, reality of redemption and the reality of the new creation as a result of redemption. The next question we had to answer haven't resolved like the primary questions about life in our existence which is that God made it then it is this way because something has gone wrong which he has delivered us from and we we been delivered from that and now new creation who received the consumation of this reality at his coming. I haven't sorted out all of that. The next thing we delved into examining is the reality of God's purpose. And I'll say that took a bit of time. You know, having to unpack everything that the scripture says about God's purpose. Now, having resolved that, even though I'm going to do a recap, we want to take it a step further still within our examination of God's purpose, but we'll be looking at what we call pursuing God's purpose. But let's just remind ourselves, what have we seen to be God's purpose in a very objective way? And the reason why I say that is because there's the possibility of thinking about God's purpose in a subjective manner. And we have seen this happen. You know, it happens in like two ways generally. One of the subjective way we see people talk about God's purpose is, "Oh, God spoke to me that this is what he want me to do." And it's not always wrong when people say that. Sometimes it is, but there are times it just isn't. It's just that they are stating the subjective without having stated the objective first. And whenever they speak that way, then it leads the hearers to think, oh, I also need to find out God's purpose for me. I'm going to take out time to pray, then eventually I'll figure it out. But that's not how it works in God's word. In God's word, God directly tells us, answers that question of purpose for us so that we are left without any confusion about what he wants us to do. And so when we get to the subjective part, we are even more confident to see it fit and in gloves with what he has already told us in his word that he would have us do. Right? So maybe I shouldn't say fit in love even though it's still fine to say that but you you we'll see it build upon that in a way that gives us comfort that we're on the right track. Okay. But then there's another way people speak subjectively about God's purpose. And this one is more common with preachers when they talk about God's purpose without answering directly from God's word what God's purpose is. And it's sort of a challenge because when you are preaching God's word you have to answer a couple of questions. The reality of God, the necessity of redemption. Even the though we might not say different people might not say that way but these are the questions that we are bound to answer about life and there's the constant question of meaning and purpose the reason to existence particularly this created contingent existence that we are in that every person has to answer every philosophy every religion every worldview every belief system has to answer and that's because humanity is wired as rational we are wired as rational agents with the question of truth and that includes the question of why or purpose and when as preachers or different ministries we don't have that direct objective answer from God's word we start to see people fill in the gaps about what God's purpose is so sometimes people will go to the great commission and call the great commission God's purpose like oh Jesus said go go therefor and make disciples of all nations or go and preach the gospel to every creature that's what our purpose is as believers that's what he sent us to do but then there's a problem with that I mean people say these are well-intentioned you know and they are very sincere about it because it's the words of the Lord Jesus and they give I mean very great honor to God's word as well as the person of Jesus. So the reason why I kind of chuckled a bit is because when we say that there's a mistake we are making you know the purpose that God has preceded the fact that sin happened and what Jesus was telling us to do was in the light of the reality of sin. So when we speak that way we are sort of missing what the point is because the very mission of the church Jesus gave is the restoration of man back into God's purpose. Now interestingly the mission of the church is now part of God's purpose. Right? You recall from what we have studied is part of our spiritual assignment because by design God always wanted us to have a spiritual assignment but within this redemptive age that spiritual assignment is now the redemption of humanity out of sin and darkness. So invariably that great commission is subsumed into God's purpose. When we say things like that, we are not giving people a full picture. That is a picture that answers before there was sin at all. God in his very self-existence, you know, before at all there was sin. And we're not even saying God in his for now. God in his self-existence, in his good pleasure, in his will, in his purpose, in his counsel or determination, what did he want? And the answer to that is separate from, oh, now sin has happened and God knew in his forn knowledge. What's he going to do about it? So we ask, what is God's eternal purpose? As Paul said it in um Ephesians 3:11, he called it his eternal purpose. We have seen the answer to that and that is sunship. Right? So I want us to have that picture. And the reason why I have to say, oh, it's not your subjective personal revelation or is it this very well-intended attempt by people to explain God's purpose is so that we don't just mix what we are saying into the bag of many things we already believe and practice, but rather we are able to situate each one rightly. So for example, you're able to situate the great commission, the mission of the church as oh this is now my spiritual assignment in God's purpose. Now I see it. I understand what's at play here. And you're able to situate your personal revelation as oh because of all this that the Lord wants me to do, this is where what he has told me personally fits in um and you are able to walk with that confidence very objective confidence directly from the word of God that this is what I'm supposed to do next. So please understand the place I'm speaking from in this regard. Less you say, "Oh, that means this person is wrong or that means this person is this." That's not the goal as much as simply saying you must know yourself. This is what God has said in his word. His purpose is and then this is how you understand what you might have heard here or how you might have seen things or what God even has told you about yourself. That's the major um intent in the point I'm trying to clarify. Now with that said, we have seen that directly what we are told in his word that what God tells us in his word his purpose is his sunship. Right? We've seen that Ephesians 1:9 Ephesians 15 that the good pleasure of God's will is sunship. Romans 8:15 to17 explains what sunship is. And please be careful to understand that sunship even though we keep seeing the word adoption is not adoption at all. The word happen to be used as adoption for many reasons because the real deal in sunship is being someone's hair and it's a positioning issue. The person chooses you to be his hair usually because you are his child. But the very intention in the use of sunship by Paul is you are God's child that is God's heir. And that's well explained in Romans 8:15 to 17. And which was the intention that the Lord had and tried to reflect in Israel, the people of Israel. Now with all this in mind, which I trust you understand, we can go a step further. So we have seen God's purpose is sunship. We have seen sunship means to be God's child, which means God made us because he wants us to fellowship with him. So even just times of fellowship is fulfilling purpose, right? I know sometimes we put a lot of attention in the pursuit part of the equation. But the fact that you are just God's child as you are right now having believed in the gospel means you are walking in purpose. You are walking with God. That's his will. And that's why we see text like Enoch walked with God. Abraham walked with God or God talking to Abraham walk with him on and on like that. This is part of just the beauty. Even though the walk itself includes the pursuit. So just times of fellowship. You are like Lord thank you for the privilege of existence just to be here now to know you and to worship you to fellowship with you is part of the beauty. So even when people say oh god's purpose is just for us to knowing you know by that they mean the fellowship of um father of a father to his child then they are for sure right. It might not be the wholesome answer but you can see where it fits into the explanation clearly given to us in God's word about his purpose. So you are to be child fellowship with him and walk in his nature and character. But on the pursuit side of the equation which is part of why he made you which is also why there is that sense to your existence. You are not just living as present but as one going after an assignment to do and you are so wired. People fill it up one way or the other even if it's idolatrously even if it's idolatrously filled. Right? So there's this just designed existentially to fulfill something for fulfillment for achievement for accomplishment. There's just that sense okay what am I meant to do like and I'm not talking about what am I meant to maintain in doing what am I meant to get done it's just of God that is like that it's existential that is like that it's not demonic it's not fleshly and that's why I've given an example severally of the Lord Jesus having that same outlook Paul himself speaking in that manner so Paul himself speaking in that manner as well so very important that we have an appreciation of our place in God's purpose now we are taking a step further now that we have seen oh we are children of God we are hes of Gods of God means he has things that he owns and he all lots to us to co-hon with him and to manage to be responsible for and towards certain goals. could be like a very wealthy man that puts his children in charge and tell you you must ensure that we have this gives them like maybe revenue target or sales target or profit target to hit or market share and it's in of course I'm not saying that's precisely please don't misunderstand me but I'm saying that in that sense what God owns he gives to his children allotted responsibilities that they are meant to then pursue and fulfill so we have assignments and we have taken time to see from God's word Colossians 3 Ephesians six that it includes natural assignment. On the other hand, we have also seen that being heads of God includes spiritual assignment. So you have a natural assignment and you have a spiritual assignment. What do you do now? Like what are you supposed to do? Which natural assignment are you meant to do? Is this the point where we get to motivational speaking and ask you to look at your greatest passions and desires? Are we going to switch from looking at what the objective revelation of God's word says to just like general wise counsel which may not be wrong because that's a separate issue. But all truth is God's truth. So there's a place for wisdom naturally subjected to wisdom biblically as a way to follow the direction of our life. It's like your health, right? So but that's not what we're going to do here. When we now talk about pursuing God's purpose, we are still going to look directly at God's word, which is I now know that I am a son of God and this not a matter of gender. I know I'm a son of God. I know I'm his child as well as his hair and he has allotted to me as his hair certain things to do. You know, I want you to really get it. I want you to I want it to really sink deep into you because there's a way people can get themselves to have a sense of significance out of an idolatrous conviction rather than out of a word based conviction where yeah I'm just someone that must be significant alive I must become great I must make it. I'm not even talking about any of that. Greatness in God's word doesn't need this reemphasis in a personalized way of yeah I must become great to prove a point. You don't need any of that kind of a feeling. You don't even need this sense of I must succeed because I've coming from a place where I failed and all that. You need a righteous conviction, a word-based conviction that you are here for a reason. It's completely different from a general pressured worldly ambition. And yet there is so much passion and there's so much ambition within this righteous conviction within this world-based conviction about yourself and about your life. You need to preserve your art because in this world there's this constant pressure that the world can put on you from different quarters maybe friends and family and your background and all that makes you want to accomplish for other reasons than the ones we are talking about. this this that void that gap that place that God made us to have that place of the positive purpose we all have it but it can be filled in different ways and we have to be careful to ensure that it is really God who is filling it not and not something else so I want you to have a clear sense that you are here as a matter of God's own orchestration with a real significance to your person and that significance is he wants you as his child is here and he has specific things he has allotted to you and literally no one else. Now my time has run on me but I'm setting up the tone for what we want to see as we're looking at the pursuit of his purpose. I want you to personalize it. You have what he has made you for and what you are to do. And it's so important he gave up his life for you to have it. We continue on the next one. Catch you then. &gt;&gt;
