---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 2)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1SYZubaMsHw
---

# The Reality of God's Purpose (Part 2)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught today. Let's get right into it. Brothers and sisters, we are still looking at the subject matter of God's purpose. We have started out by seeing the gospel's place as truth in our life. Not just the claim of it being truth, but the proof that it is truth. And on that grounds, we accept his testimony of the revelation of God's will. And the last episode we began to see what is called God's will or God's purpose. And our central text in this regard was Ephesians 1:9. Maybe I should just say some things. We have seen the gospel proving the reality of God, the reality of redemption fulfilled in Christ, the reality of who we are in Christ, something we're going to come back to later. But right now, we have two more things to see as the truth that the gospel proves. But this particular instance, we are going to zoom in quite some um because it's a subject matter that is very foundational to our work as believers and to a lot of things we're going to be seeing on this podcast. So I do want you to pay close attention to it. Now Ephesians 1 and verse 9, Paul speaking here, he says, "Having made known to us the mystery of his will." And the subject matter in this text is God. He says, "God has made known to us." If you read the pretext, you're going to see it. So God has made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure which he proposed in himself. So what we call God's purpose, what he proposed in himself. If you get to Ephesians 1:11, you are going to see Paul speak about his purpose using the now itself purpose. It says in him we have obtained an inheritance being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things after the council of his will. So he's saying that we are here because of the purpose of him that works all things after the council of his will. But this purpose from verse 9 is said to be his good pleasure and his will. That which we are told that he purposed in himself he determined to have is his good pleasure what he likes and his will what he wants. Then if we say what is God's purpose even without knowing the exact answer you can say well his purpose is what he likes and what he wants and that shifts the question to what is it that he likes that he wants and we started to see Ephesians 15 answering that part of the question. What is this thing that God likes that he wants? Which happens to be what he has proposed in himself. Ephesians 15 says, "Having predestined us to adoption as sons." If you're using KJV, you'll see the word adoption of children. So he's saying that God has predestined us as ahead of time brought us to talking about the people of faith by what he has done in Christ. He said haven't predestined us which that word already has a redemptive thought in itself as you know he has brought us back to adoption as sons or he has brought us eventually to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself according [snorts] to because of based on the good pleasure of his will. So according to or based on or because of the good pleasure of his will, he predestined us to adoption as sons. So adoption of children. So the act of predestining us was because of the good pleasure of his will. Therefore, what he predestined us to has to be the good pleasure of his will. Now this is important because the predestination is not the good pleasure of his will. There is the good pleasure of his will. Something he has proposed in himself. something that he likes and he wants and he wants to see done. That's a thing on his own. It's because of that based on that that he predestined us. Implying that when we take a look at that predestination and see the result of it, where it was headed or what it eventually turned out to be about, we can tell what the good pleasure of his will is. So he said he predestined us to adoption as sons, adoption of children. Now the interesting thing here in verse 5 is that these three words adoption of children or adoption as sons happened to be just one word in the Greek that is when Paul wrote in the language in which he wrote which was the Greek the word he used here is the wordia so it's just one word of course that one word by time we look into it is a compound word there are two words at play there but it is exactly one word he used when he wrote there he predestined us If he brought us by that work of redemption in Christ Jesus to this thing called what exactly does it mean? I'm just going to give a spelling. There are two options you can use to spell the word when it is rendered in an English form. Um you can use h u i o or you can use u i h o then theia then the part will be t h e s i a. Soia H u i o t h e s i a is from two words. We have the word oos h u i o s. And that word is literally just the word son. Then we have the other word ti t i t h e m i. That simply means to put or to place. Now to tell me if I put my phone on a table, I'm going to say I determine my phone on the table. If I take a Bible and I put it on a lect or a pullpit, you simply say in the Greek, I determine that Bible on the pulpit. So when you say toia which is son and t and it morphs into a noun you are simply saying the placement as a son placing as a son the state so putting someone in the state of being a son and that's why one of the best ways to render that word as one word in the same way Paul wrote is to simply use the word in English sunship. ship the state of being a son. Sunship. So he predestined us to us to the placement as sons, the state of being a son or we can simply say to sunship by Jesus Christ to himself. So God has brought us to sunship by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will. So if we ask the question what is this thing that God likes good pleasure and what is this thing that God wants his will which is what he proposed in himself according to Ephesians 1:9 it is sunship sunship is what he likes sunship is what he wants sunship is what he has proposed but then at this point it seems very vague so you're telling me now god's purpose is sunship what does that even mean does he mean he wants male children sons but the answer is no because that's not what sunship means means. Now before I go on to explain to you what sunship means, I want to I want you to see something. Romans chapter 9 that we are told that God reflected this reality of sunship which is his purpose in Israel. You know well enough Israel were called by him as his chosen people in view of fulfilling redemption back into his purpose because via them the redeemer the Christ was going to come and he reflected with them the people of Israel he reflected with them his will his purpose and what Paul says here in Romans 9 and 4 is profound Romans 9 I'll start from verse three then I'll read it into four he says I would wish that I myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my countrymen according to the flesh who are Israelites. So this is Paul here really desiring the salvation of the Israelites. He says to whom pertain the adoption. Guess the wordia to whom pertain the adoption. And here is just one word. It is the exact same word. word. So we could say to whom pertain sunship. Can you imagine that? That the very first thing Paul says is to be understood about the Israelites was that sunship is what they were about is what God was reflecting, depicting, showing forth in and through them. And you might wonder, how could that be? I mean, where exactly do we find the concept of sunship at all relative to the Israelites? And I tell you, we find it very early on when Yahweh spoke to Moses to go deliver the Israelites. And after he sent him forth, one of the important things he told Moses about them is who they were going to be to him. And I want you to see that in Exodus and in chapter 4. In Exodus and chapter 4 and verse 22, he told Moses, he said, "Then you shall say to Pharaoh, th says the Lord, Israel is my son." Very clear, very direct. So he's making it so clear that that which Israel is meant to be in essence. Now, of course, at this point, we're going to debate is more of reflecting it. That which Israel is meant to be is his son, Israel. And I mean, that's male and female, young and old, all of them. He says all of them, they are my son, my firstborn. And he says, I say to you, let my son go that he may serve me. So, there's still service in sunship. We're going to come to all of that because in fact within the reality of sunship is service as you're going to see the very understanding in the mind of Moses as he was receiving these words and that would have been in the mind of the Israelites based on what they understood sunship to mean has service in it. You'll see that yourself very soon. So both in the Hebrew mind and as we're going to see in the Greek mind sunship is understood to include service. So what does sunship mean? God is saying Israel is my son. He's telling us his purpose for us as well is sunship. What does that mean? How does that make sense in my life? Like God wants me to be his son. Like some people will say and sometimes you might you might say that's not a reasonable way to think. Say how does that put food on table? You know what does it mean that I'm a son of God? What does that mean for my life? So and it's not as much the food on table as much as what am I supposed to do with that? What what exactly am I supposed to do with that? What's that supposed to mean to me? Is that question is very valid. that is what does it mean to me? We're going to find the answer to that. The best text to resolve that question is Romans and chapter 8. So you could turn your Bibles Romans and chapter 8 and see what Paul said. You know, it's very important as I say this that you check your Bibles yourself. Be sure that I'm saying exactly what he says. Let's I'm handling the revelation of God in a way that may not be correct. Of course, I'm not. But you have to be sure. It's not your duty to just accept it. You got to be sure. Romans 8 and in verse 15. So we're looking at God's purpose which is a revelation which he has said is sunship. The question at this juncture is what does sunship mean? Romans 8 and:15. You did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fair. Now the prior state we were in was a state of bondage under sin, death and darkness. It's like the Egyptians themselves. They were in bondage. They were slaves. God spoke to Abraham. I'll save them from the bondage of the Egyptians. He said, "You didn't receive the spirit of bondage again to fear." That's not the condition you are in. You didn't receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but the spirit of adoption. All right, guess the word is still the same word. You receive the spirit of adoption, sunship, whereby we cry, aba, father. Now just from that verse alone you can tell this spirit of sunship has to do with being someone's child because the individual who has this spirit is crying out abba father. This is a very familiar way of relating with someone. He says abba father this is not abba father like some people will say ah baba sorry if you are not yurba that's like ailing someone but using like a patron that's not the idea of god being a father. When you use abba that's not just a patron anymore. This is the cry of a real child towards his dad. He says, "By that spirit of sunship, we cry above father." But then we get into the meat of it in the next two verses. And we're going to be seeing it better in the next episode. He says, "The spirit himself bears witness or gives evidence with our spirit that we are children of God." We're going to see what that means. So indeed, the spirit of sunship has this reality of being God's child. But there is more to it and I really want us to get into it and I want you to get what it means. I trust you are ready to see that. Catch you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
