---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "Faith Stand (Part 3)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1lHyO_rYQp8
---

# Faith Stand (Part 3)

You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome back to the Plle podcast and this is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose. I trust that you are going to receive everything we're going to be teaching today on the faith stand. We have seen a number of things already. I trust that you've been following through with that. Um, presently what led us to the study on the faith stand is we have seen what God's purpose is. We have seen the journey of God's purpose. We have seen um the need for growth to fulfill God's purpose. We have seen that that that growth happens on the mind. The mind is the place the domain where growth happens. But presently we are we wrapped up looking at the mind of man seeing that one aspect of our mind is so important to our work is the most important to our work is essentially what makes for our work um because I'm going to come back to that part of our mind in a very in a separate teaching on its own. I would not get to some text yet but there are a number of texts that talk about that aspect of our mind a lot. For example, like in where the Lord spoke about out of the abundance of the hearts the mouth speaks the abundance there cannot be your conviction because there is no plenteousness to conviction that makes for an abundance. So if I say out of the abundance of your heart and let's say you believe like 1 + 1 is two. It doesn't take an abundance to believe that. You might have many um angles of reasoning that lead you to the conclusion that 1 plus 1 is two. But you hold that con conviction that 1 plus 1 is two. But let's say 1 plus 1 is 2 is something to be conscious about. There could be a volume an abundance a volume of how much of a conviction how much of a consciousness of that conviction that you have. So that's one instance that talks about that aspect of our mind. There are several others that we see we see in scripture but that's not our focus in this teaching. What we're looking at presently is faith stand which is that what affects these aspects that become so fundamental in our growth in the teaching of the Lord Jesus in the teaching of the apostles what affects this part of our mind is faith and we started to look at that from Romans chapter 6. So if you ask the question why am I growing or why am I not growing it could be one of two things right it could be your knowledge and the other hand it could be your faith stand your stand of faith. Now there's a reason why we also call it faith stand because faith is a very big word and not everything about faith is faith stand. We'll get to that. For example, your salvation did not happen by faith stand. Your salvation happened by just one moment of faith. Expecting that certain results that are of a different level than salvation would happen the same way salvific faith happened or salv salvific faith is is an error. Right? So if you think like your spiritual growth is just going to be one instance of believing, you are not just being honest with scripture. Doesn't work like that. So your spiritual is going to happen via faith stand, but your salvation happened via one instance of faith is you know faith stand is like an ongoing stance. This one is one stance of faith and that is it. Let's go to Romans 6. So we do not believe or other matters. We'll get to them later. In Romans and chapter 6, Paul speaking, he referenced the knowledge of his audience in a rhetorical manner three times. And I mentioned that in Romans 6:3, he says, "Do you not know as many of you as were baptized into Christ were baptized into his death?" So he assumes that they know that they are already dead with Christ. That means their old man is dead and gone. In Romans 6:6, he assumes their knowledge. In fact, he affirms their knowledge. He says, "Knowing this that our old man, like all of us know that our flesh has been crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer that we should no longer be slaves of sin." So we know what has happened to the old man. We know what has happened to the flesh. Then also verse 9 says, "Knowing that Christ having been raised from the dead dies no more. Death no longer has dominion over him." So knowledge is first in our faith after salvation. In fact in Ephesians 1:15 Paul says it says therefore after head of your faith in the Lord Jesus that's the first part I wanted to mention. So he says after head of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love unto all the saints I cease not to give thanks for you making mention of you in my prayers that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ the father of glory may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him. So you can see that like he's saying ahead of your faith and upon that I have this desire that you know so that you have believed on Jesus does not mean you know so it's one thing you have faith in Christ is another thing you now know you have the knowledge of your faith what um Ephesians 4:13 would call the unity of the faith so you believe on Jesus but you need to know you need to have wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him so you need to have an awesome grabs of your faith. Now um that you know does not imply growth. So knowledge is prerequisite to growth but knowledge itself is not what growth is. Even though we might sometimes describe growth in that manner and it wouldn't be wrong because of the stability and the certainty that knowledge brings. So of course someone that is stable and certain is I mean there's a level of maturity to account for there than someone that is unstable someone that is uncertain in the faith he has in Christ right so there's that level of growth when we speak about knowledge and when we speak about um our understanding of the faith but it is not the growth that makes for our work so this kind of person might have a lot of confidence and a lot of certainty but they might be quite weak in maybe some fundamental fundamental areas of their life and that's not God's desire for them. So what does Paul say should happen after we know verse 11 says we should reckon and that's a different word from just knowing this one is recognizing is taking into account is affirming reckon yourself to be dead indeed to sin and alive unto God. Then verse 12 um and 13 and mentions to present ourself 13 particularly says to present your your your your members as alive unto God. Don't present them as dead. Um don't present them as instruments of unrighteousness. Present yourself as alive unto God and dead to sin. Now that word present paristi if you remember means to stand beside. So we are to stand beside ourself as who we are now in Christ. Also Romans 12:1 we use that word again. And the way Romans 12:1 uses is quite strong. It's something we're going to study later. Um in Romans 12 and verse one it says I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of God that you present your bodies. So he's just talking about your persons as a whole. Um the the fact that the word is in the plural means he's saying each person should present their own body. Right? So you present your own body a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God which is your reasonable service. And it's in the plural in the Greek as much as it is in the English. So this is not an error on the path of the translators. This is indeed what the apostle himself was saying. Present yourself as alive, as holy, as acceptable to God. It's your reasonable service. Um there's one hand where we see it as that's logically what we ought to do. Like right now we already knew in our nature. We now know we are we need to present ourselves. I mean if you were Paul and you have spent Romans 1 to Romans 11 telling them so many vital details about justification about um who they are in Christ about um righteousness about the spirit of God in them about their purpose. Then the next thing is you have to present. Now you know so present yourself. He says is your logical worship and uses that word lata lata you know that word essentially is takes us into discussing prayer. So which is showing us that faith happens in this domain of prayer because latria is about temple service or worship which is worship prayer everything that goes on in our temple engagement with the person whose dwelling place the temple he is God so um you present yourself it's your logical reasonable worship present yourself he describes that act of presenting ourel as renewing our mind in verse two don't be conformed to this world be transformed by the renewing of your mind. So you are refreshing on your mind. I'm a new creation. I'm born of God and dead to sin. You are refreshing it on your mind. And by so doing you are transformed. Now this is one of the reasons why for um the longest in church in the church a lot of church traditions including um some of our oldest church institutions the more traditional orthodox churches. We have the ideas of like chants. we have the ideas of like um repeated confessions and those type of things because it is baked into the culture of the church. So um it's not strange that we have certain affirmations that we make including affirmations about ourself. It is part of our faith that we do that. Now the text I want us to go to is where we ended in the last episode 2 Corinthians chapter 1 and in verse 24 it says moreover in 23 I call God as witness against my soul that to spare you I came no more to Corinth so Paul says I didn't want to I didn't want to be hard towards you so I came no more to Corinth not because we have dominion over your faith so he's saying our being tough in this scenario so you can see Paul is very reluctant to be tough. You know, Paul is not the kind of person that is tough tough at a win. He's not anytime he just, you know, he's going off. He's reluctant to be tough. But he's saying that my being tough is not because I have dominion over your faith. It doesn't mean even if I'm tough on you, he's going to change you. You still on you, you have the will to do what you're going to do. We cannot usurp up your will. We do not have control over you. We can lay down order. We can instruct and direct and we can rebuke you. So we can be tough on you, but it doesn't mean we even have dominion or control over your faith. We are only fellow workers. All we can do is supply the knowledge and the inspiration for you to act on God's word. So it says we are fellow workers for your joy for by faith you stand. So eventually if it's faith it's on you. That's what I'm getting to. if his faith is on. This is a comfort I think people need to have about the church. There are people who by function of certain experiences they have had in the church are always weary of maybe the certain overbearing nature that the church may have on them. It's possible that there might be certain ways of carrying out activities in church that might be wrong and might be products of people's own mindsets that are wrong. But essentially all we can that can be done in church is to give you the order, the inspiration and the correction to act on God's word. There can nobody can take you like this and make you act on God's word. That's your faith. You can only put down the order. Oh, we are to pray at such and such times. That has always been in God's word. We are to meet at such and such times. We are to hear this or hear that. And they can inspire you. You ought to do this better. They can correct you. Why are you not doing this? But at the end you have to act on God's word. It's on you to act on God's word. For by faith you stand. By faith you stand. Wow. So if standing is by faith, this act of presenting oursel is by faith. We are getting into the realm of seeing how this consciousness part or reckoning part or presenting part of ourself operates because he's saying this act of standing is by faith. That means it operates by faith. How does faith work? How do we grow? Right now, let me show you another text. How do we grow? Look at Colossians and in chapter 2 and in verse 6. Colossians chapter 2 and verse 6. 6. So Paul was speaking here and he said, "As you have as you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him." As you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, walk in him. Okay? Now we remember that being doers of the word is also the same idea as walking. So he's saying the only way you're going to walk in Christ is in the same way that you received Christ. And I don't think anyone needs to tell you as I'm saying that that the way you received Christ was by what? Faith. But remember the principle of faith are the same. But the kind of faith if I want to say you know um the expression of faith will be sort of different because you receive Christ by this singular act of confessing. You know you confessed the reality of what he has done as personal and applicable to you. But when you are going to work is not a one-time issue. So but the principle holds notwithstanding. It means we have to go back and study how did we get saved? How did that faith operate? What is this principle of faith that is applicable not just to our salvation but also applicable to our work? Because we are saying that it's the same principle that James was pointing to when he now says you should be doers of the word. And he's saying you are going to have to stand beside who you are. Present yourself. Paul is going to say you have to present yourself. James will say you have to continue parameo. Abide beside that mirror. It's not enough that you know on your heart is important that you abide. And we're going to find out how abiding is with our mouth. And so it means the transformation of this part of our mind, the spirit of our mind, our reckoning or our consciousness. That transformation happens by faith. We need to understand what faith is all about. So we are looking at faith stand. We have made further progress. We'll study faith from salvation to appreciate better how we walk. See you on the next one. &gt;&gt;
