---
tags: [podcast, pleros-podcast]
date: 2026-02-25
episode: "The Mind of Man (Part 1)"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cOZq7Uv91r4
---

# The Mind of Man (Part 1)

Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to [music] fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths [music] of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Blush podcast. We are here to give you your daily dose of God's word that transforms you to fulfill God's purpose. Today we are taking on another subject matter but is in the same line of our study. So I'll try to do a lot of recap and introduction to what we'll be looking at today which is the mind of man. We've seen a couple of things already. We started out by looking at the place of the gospel in our life which is the place of truth and proceeded from that to see the reality of God's purpose. And we saw what God's purpose is. We took a lot of time in that study. We have repeated it a lot. And I I do hope that you don't get somewhat frustrated whenever I have to repeat over and again what God's purpose is. But I think it's important to have repetition for it to stick. I like what Paul said in Philippians 3 and verse one. It says for me to say the same things unto you is not grievious for you. It is safe. Really what the text means is like I don't feel burdened. I don't feel tired, exhausted, grieved to repeat the same things over and again to you. And even if you might get tired of it, it is actually safe for you. So well, God's truth is such that it is conclus conclusive. So repetition is expected. Now back to what I was saying, we have seen what God's purposes. If you recall Romans um Ephesians 1, particularly verse 9 and 5 for short, but the entire text tells us that God's purpose is sunship or adoption as sons. You could also see in Romans and in chapter 8 15 through to 17. Well, Paul explained what sunship is. He told us that we received the spirit of sunship which implies that or which gives the evidence of being God's child as well as God's hair. And we've explained what it means that we are children of God. is a call to fellowship. As Romans 8:15 says, you have the spirit of sunship whereby you cry about father that means at the core of that spirit is the reality of fellowship. This natural this genuine this this cry of familiarity um as we relate with our father and it's okay and call I do hope I've emphasized that already in some episode. I think I did but it might be worth repeating that is at the very heart of the truth of God's purpose that we are children of God. God has called us into fellowship with him. You really will not enjoy the faith if you see the faith of Christ as about things to do, principles to uphold and so on and so forth. All of those things find their bearing in the light of this relationship truth that defines the Christian faith that we exist because the creator wanted us, desired us, loved us to be his own. So if that element of I am this individual, desired, wanted, loved by God is lacking. I am his beloved. I am accepted in him. I am I am I was intentionally longed for by him. If that sense of the love of God about and towards you is lacking then your faith is going to be somewhat affected for sure. And when I mean your faith of course is I mean your faith to receive things but I mean your faith life your entire walk with God will be affected. So at the core of your your existence of the essence and the meaning and the import of your existence is God really wanted you but we could say us but and then in that us you are just as valuable and significant to him. He wanted you as part and parcel of his own of his purpose. That's the first part of God's purpose. We are children of God. But there is the other part of the equation which is that we are hairs of God. And when we say we're heads of God, you know, it means that there are things assigned or allotted to us. There's a joint sense of inheritance and there is the severed or parted or in individuated sense of inheritance where as individuals we have what God has allotted to us to do. And we have seen several texts on this. So I'm not going into detail on each and every text. All this is to say that you exist because of God's purpose. You are not just another face in the crowd. You are not just roaming around trying to figure out what to do now that you just happen to exist randomly for no reason whatsoever. If you hold on to such a world view which unfortunately in all honesty according to the evidence we have at least from where I see it is false you are going to leave a life that does not entirely reflect the intention of the creator for it. And also I will see this that God holds that that view he has given you more than enough evidence to show not just the truth of his person but the truth to not just the truth of a person that compels your faith. He has shown you more than enough to cause you to walk with him. Well for more answers on things like that I do hope by now we have you'd have seen it things on the pleos website that will be able to address maybe areas of concerns you might have on questions like that. But all of that said brings us to all right this is God's purpose sunship. We are children of God. We are hes of God. We have assignments to carry out as we fellowship and walk with our father and in his nature and his character. Okay. So what do we do? How do we go about it? And in doing that we spelt out that as children of God, it means we are simply called to a daily life of devotion. And devotion here would be prayer, would be the word, the reading of the word, the hearing of God's word, the things that make for our development, our formation, our growth. That would be the first part of the equation. Then there is the other side of the equation, you know, where we seeing what we do as hairs of God. And in this sense, we are pointing out the assignments that have been given onto us by God, right? And helping us appreciate our place and our role on earth. And more so, you know, as believers, we are meant to be examples. are meant to fully reflect the intention of God. So when you carry out your assignment, particular in this case I'm saying in the natural, it should be a testimony of what you believe. The way you handle your natural assignment should be a testimony of the goodness of the rightness of what and who you believe. There's a particular text that says something to that effect. Let me just quickly show you that because of our time. 1 Timothy 6 and verse one. If we handle our natural assignment poorly. Now, if we handle our spiritual assignment well, it is a testimony of truth for people's salvation. But it's not a testimony in the natural about the virtues of what we believe. Now, of course, the virtues of what we believe do not compel salvation. They can bring the desire for it. But it is the truth of the message we preach that compel salvation. But one can repel people by holding the faith and acting in ways that point out or that give the suggest the idea to people that the faith cannot be right cannot be good because the kind of attitude people have is contrary to good conscience is contrary to just the natural conscience of man. Let me show you a text 1 Timothy 6 and verse one. It said let as many bond servants today will say employees as are under the yoke. In this sense it was indenturship but there arguments for other kinds of slavery that were on in the in the economy in the economy at the time unfortunately. So as under the yoke for our world today it's the principle holds just for employees. So as many born servants as under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor so that the name of God and his doctrine may not be blasphemed or so powerful. If those who have the faith are not reflecting the character of of God, the character of good and righteousness in what they do in the natural, it raises questions to the heart and minds of people. So just saying that we need to ensure we pursue our natural assignments properly as well as our spiritual assignment for the sake of the salvation of souls and their eternal standing. Now if we have assignments to pursue, we have this life of devotion to maintain. We have an old view of what God's purpose is. But there's one question. How do we fulfill God's purpose? So I've said the reality of God's purpose. There's the journey of God's purpose or the pursuits of God's purpose which shows the steps involved in carrying out God's purpose. For example, there's a commitment to the local church. There is the disciplehip that goes on there that equips us to go to preach to teach and all the way onto leadership to stand in leadership in the body of Christ. But then knowing the journey doesn't mean you are able to do it. I've used an example that we can still hold on to. I said it's like someone carrying two heavy bags and I use like maybe bags of cement because I think they are pretty heavy at least by Nigerian standards. I don't know how you operate anywhere else. So you are carrying two heavy bags and you to walk a particular distance maybe a 500 m 1,000 m distance. You could see the distance. Let's even say it's not a straight line. There's an entire path for you to take. So they are twist and turns and the person shows you these are the twist and these are the turns for you to walk all the way and get to this destination. So the person has given you a picture of the pursuit you are to have has given you a picture of the journey you are to go through and the person has shown you what you to do whilst going through that that journey but all of that would not substitute the need to be able to do the actual work itself. I I do hope you understand. So that you know that oh I'm to go this way and turn at this point. When I make this crossroad I go to the right and then when I go here I do this next would not make or would not account for you knowing that is not going to substitute for I must be able to carry the burden. I must be able to carry these two heavy bags. I must be able to carry my natural assignment, spiritual assignments whilst living a devoted life to the Lord. I hope you get that. Like that's the picture that I want you to to see. And if you do see that, then it means you'd appreciate the fact that you need growth, right? It means there is something you need to do to make it possible for you to bear the two bags and then work the journey out of doing that. Interestingly, we have to do both in this case. Now, in my illustration, it doesn't work like that. So, you have to well, some it could work like that. Maybe you take time to train, then you start dragging the bags until you are strong enough to start carrying them properly. But you would understand that now you're saved. You have God's purpose. You're going to start out carrying out your natural assignment, spiritual assignment. But you must get strong, equipped, trained to be able to do that. Now, for this particular episode where we are introducing our new subject matter, the mind of man, since we have seen how we fulfill God's purposes by growth, what we're trying to do is to say everything turns on our mind. Everything about our growth turns on our mind. It depends on our mind. Now I'll take us to Ephesians chapter 4, a text we have already been studying from the earlier episodes. In Ephesians 4, it's clear that the Lord Jesus at his resurrection gave the leaders of the church to perfect the saints. And the end point of the perfecting of the saints, it tells us in verse 13, is the unity of the faith, which describes knowledge in its own form. Then it says the knowledge of the son of God. So it's somewhat somewhat repetitive. He's just using different descriptions for the same reality, but they're in two categories. Two descriptions are talking about knowledge. The other two descriptions are talking about growth or stature. So he says we come to the entity of the faith knowledge of son of God, which is the knowledge that is the premise or prerequisite for the stature he wants to tell us about. He says to a perfect man and to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Now one point we have made very clear is that the knowledge itself is not the stature. Which is why it's possible for one to know but yet not have that level of growth that makes for walk. There will be such a contradiction as that which Romans 6 are light where people were like I don't understand. We have this grace of God but it seems like something is off. Are we going to continue in sin? It's like you are not even under sin at all. You are dead to sin. So and if you are dead to sin you need to acknowledge that so that your work may reflect that. And it shows that you could know but your work does not reflect this when he says do not let sin win in your mortal body that you should obey it in his laws. The fact that you know does not mean you are strong does not mean you are mature does not mean you have grown to such a place as to be able to bear the burdens of your work. Now just to wrap up for this episode what we notice about this growth is that it's about our mind. I was saying that many times we make the mistake of saying we need to grow our spirits. I know we say we have to grow spiritually which is absolutely correct but we can have the idea when we say spiritual growth growing spiritually that our spirit is where the word work is and we start to have very strange ideas about what our spirit is and we are struggling to distinguish us from what our mind is. We sometimes think our mind is our enemy. We sometimes start to have the wrong ideas. And so many people face a challenge in their spiritual growth because they just don't understand if I will use this word the mechanics of how growth happens which is something that has to do entirely with our mind. So wrapping up this episode I will say Ephesians 4:17 makes it clear our mind is the seat of all this activity of growth. He told us we shouldn't be like the Gentiles who have this futile mind whose understanding is darkened who have the ignorance in them who are blind at heart. He talks about the mind in his varied form as the reason for the state that in. And on this note, I introduce you to the mind of man and we're going to examine fully the mind and how our spiritual growth relates with that. Thank you. &gt;&gt;
