# The Hidden Man (Part 2)

## Recap: The Mind of Man and God's Purpose
Welcome to Pleros podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it.

Welcome back to the Pleros podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word, transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. So, as you all know, our focus and our drive is all channeled towards seeing you fulfill all that God has called you to do. And what we have done to ensure this is to give you the knowledge of God's word as clearly as we possibly can, helping you to know God's purpose and then to know how to fulfill it.

So, we have since studied what God's purpose is. And in the last podcast episode, we took some time out to reiterate that. But presently, we are looking at how we fulfill God's purpose for our life and we zoomed back to the focus on our mind as the place that determines our fulfillment of God's purpose. Now, having said that much, we had to retrace some of the things that we have seen about the human mind or the mind of man.

## The Three Parts of the Mind: Reason, Memory, and Will
You recall that we have seen seven aspects of man's mind. We saw that man's mind includes a reasoning or observation or perception part which is the first part of our mind. Like wherever you are right now you are taking in information through your ears, your eyes, your nose, probably every sense that you have. And now you're processing it: that smells good, that smells bad, that tastes good, that tastes bad, or what I'm hearing makes sense or it doesn't make sense, on and on like that.

So there's that first part of your mind that is processing, is reasoning, is thinking, is observing, is perceiving, is processing what it is receiving. We could call it the consideration part of your mind. We could call it the reasoning part of your mind. Then there's the second part of your mind which is memory. So you could reason on a matter and not be conclusive. But that matter will go to your memory whether long-term or short-term.

But then there's the third part of our mind which is our will. What we now choose can happen in a couple of ways. Whether we are choosing to do or we choosing to agree that something is the case. So after reasoning on something you may reach the point where you agree that it is right or it is wrong. On the other hand also your will propels your action. You choose to do this or you choose to do that.

Following from our wheel, we then saw that there's the conviction part of our mind as well as what we've called the consciousness or the reckoning part of our mind. And that reckoning/consciousness part of our mind is what accounts for our emotions as an effect in response to whatever we are experiencing or witnessing. We are likely to react based on the state of consciousness that we have and then also our conscious judgment. We're likely to pass certain conscious judgments based on our passive state of consciousness.

## Defining the Inward and Outward Man
Having said that, we are looking at the subject matter: the hidden man. And I'm going to introduce properly what the hidden man is in this episode. In the last one, I only took us to the text and I didn't say that much because we were out of time. Today's episode, we want to see it better, but I'm going to start with a text that tells us about man in a more wholesome way.

You remember the text, we have seen it before: 2 Corinthians 4:16. Paul speaking here, he said: therefore we do not lose heart even though our outward man is perishing yet our inward man is being renewed day by day. And I said when we're studying this text under the subject matter "the mind of man", I told us that if you describe something by what is inside and outside the thing, then you have fully described that thing right there. Could be other ways of describing the same thing, maybe by the parts that make up the whole of it, but describing it relative to an inside and outside paradigm is also another awesome way of looking at the entity in question.

So it speaks about man as inward man and outward man. And he talked about the outward man as perishing, which the entire context of this particular verse was referring to the body of man as the outward man that is perishing. Whilst the inward man was pointing to the spirit of man. So essentially we can say he's telling us that man is spirit and body. Man is spirit and body. And he goes on to call the body the "tent" of man, showing us that we should think of ourselves as really being spirit. Not as... I know we are wholesomely spirit and body, but we should think of the real us (if we may put it that way) as our spirit.

## Who is the "Hidden Man"?
So if they say "who are you?", you are likely to answer "I'm a new creation" as a believer. But then you're going to see shortly that there is another way when people say "who are you". They might not be pointing to the inward man. Neither are they pointing to the outward man. They are pointing to the hidden man. Or usually it won't be that they say "who are you". If someone says "that person is like this" or "like that". It's not likely when someone is speaking about you what they are describing is necessarily the inward man.

Even if what they are describing is a reflection of the inward man. And sometimes it is not a reflection of the inward man. And they are describing you. That person they are describing is what we realize is the hidden man or the inner man. But let's take it step by step. So man is outward man and inward man. The outward man is the body. What we said we can describe as the body with a brain. I highlight the brain because it is the controlling center of the body.

Then we can describe the inward man as the spirit with a mind. Highlight the mind because it is the controlling center of the spirit. So our spirit's nature is unchanging. Bible is clear we are one spirit with the Lord. We are partakers of the divine nature; as Christ is, we are; as God is, we are now. So we have the same nature as our Father. Of course we are not self-existent. So we don't have the same status nor same reality as our Father is self-existent. So but we are created. We are contingent. We are dependent.

But He's given us His nature. He gave us His spirit. So we share His nature and our use of that nature is by our mind which is so attached to our spirit as the controlling center. So if the mind is abused by wrong information, wrong conviction and wrong reckoning of consciousness, it is going to be drawing from the world that is around, drawing from the spirit of the world and acting on that rather than drawing from the spirit that we have and the nature that we have to function. This is so important.

## The Role of Faith and Reckoning
So just to be clear, we could think of man as inward man and man as outward man. But then we see the mention of man in a different way which we introduced in the last episode. Let's look at something else before we go to that text. You recall that when we develop our mind or we develop the reckoning or the consciousness part of our mind, we have seen that happens by faith stand.

So for example, we find out we are a new creation. We are taught the truth of the new creation or the truth that we are the righteousness of God or the truth that we are love beings in Christ. That information comes into our mind. We reason about it. We see the evidence from the revelation of God's word and we're like, "Wow, this is true. I'm a new creation." And it becomes our conviction.

And we don't just stop at that point that we know. We reckon ourselves to be dead to sin, to be alive to God. So you are like: I'm a new creation. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to God. I have the life of God. I have the nature of God etc. Now it's not enough that you recognize the new nature that you have. You must reckon you know that you know it is not enough that you're convinced of it is not enough. You must reckon. And that reckoning or consciousness forms a person that determines what you do.

## The Hidden Man vs The Spirit Man
So when someone says to you, "Hey, you are... let me say something good... you are very kind," or "you are very patient," or "you are very this" or "you are very that", they are not really speaking to the reality of my inward man in the sense of my spirit man. Because someone who is acting impatient and is a new creation is also patient by nature. So when they say you are patient, they are also not talking about my body. My body's character agnostic. The body is just the body. It's just the tent and it's how you carry out activities in this natural material world.

So they are speaking to a particular reality person and they say "this person is patient, this person is kind". That person is the Hidden Man. And why we are examining this subject matter is because the Bible, the revelation of God, does reconcile brilliant teachers of the word have conceived of the Hidden Man as the spirit man. And it can rob us of doing the work on the Hidden Man that we ought to do because we are misinterpreting the Hidden Man to be the spirit man. So we are not paying attention to the Hidden Man.

I could tell you something: there are people whose spirit man (whose inward man) is the new creation. There are people like that—that they are new creations in Christ—but their Hidden Man is very far from reflecting the new creation. And this is something that we ought to take seriously and you need to think about it for yourself. There are places where you are more aligned with in your hidden man with the reality of the new creation and places where you are likely not to be.

## 1 Peter 3: Adorning the Hidden Man
The moment you understand that there is a person that the scripture speaks of that needs to be formed, that needs to be built, that needs to be made or developed to who it's meant to be. Then you can separate that person. "Oh, my Hidden Man is in this state by virtue of all the reinforcements and reckoning it has been having, you know, by exposure to the world and words that I've said and so on, and I need to address this hidden man or this inner man."

So now we are ready to go to First Peter chapter 3. We're looking at the hidden man of the heart or we can just say the hidden man. First Peter chapter 3. Now Peter was speaking to wives and particularly wives of those whose husbands are not believers in Christ Jesus. And he says: "Wives, likewise, be submissive to your own husbands" (not other people's husband). Submission is not a blanket word for women; is only within the scope of marital union. Even that there's more to say on it. One of the days when we get to that in the podcast we'll look at it.

So he says, "Be submissive to your own husband that even if some do not obey the word, they without a word may be won by the conduct of their wives." So he's saying that you can do much to draw people to the faith. That is, to bring them to the point where they will hear the message by your conduct. And this is true for wives, but it's true for believers generally. And I think it's a lesson we should take. That if he's saying that... of course you know when you are more up close with people and your character speaks loudly of righteousness, of goodness, you know just speaks of light of life, people are attracted to it. It is something we should learn.

There are times where believers (and strong social media) they are harsh, they are mean, they sort of aggressive, the bulk of their communication is maybe cold and standoffish and all these type of things, maybe obnoxious. It's a problem because we are pushing people back rather than drawing them in. Now he told the wives, he says "when they observe your chaste conduct". So it does matter. He says "accompanied by fear". So they see the sense of reverence, the awe, the way you act towards the husband in this case as well.

## Designing the Hidden Man
Now verse three says "do not let your adornment..." So for you to be like this (is talking to the wives), if you are going to be this way where you are reflecting this kind of conduct and character that is going to draw them to the faith to then hear the same and believe, you have to adorn yourself. But you are not supposed to adorn yourself only outwardly. So he's saying to be this way you need adornment.

Now that word adornment is rooted in the word *cosmos* which is also used for the universe as something that is designed. But *cosmos* is also where we have the word *cosmetic* as women use cosmetic and it's a big word for design or fashioning yourself. So design, fashion yourself is used for the natural world you know the cosmos. So he says, "Do not let your cosmetic, your adornment, your arrangement, your designing of yourself be merely outward." Arranging the hair is not speaking against it, but he's saying it shouldn't just be this. Arranging the hair, wearing gold, putting on fine apparel.

"Rather, let it be the Hidden Man of the heart." He's saying you're supposed to do something to the hidden man of the heart with the incorruptible beauty or design of a gentle and quiet spirit. You are supposed to design the hidden man with this which is very precious in the sight of God. That means the hidden man is something that can be arranged, designed. You can put on things on the man. Is something that you can make to look better. I don't know if you are seeing this.

So the hidden man cannot be the spirit because the spirit cannot be improved on. This spirit is in a complete, perfect, and divine state. The hidden man he is telling us to work on is actually speaking about a part of our mind and we need to know what part of our mind is speaking to that we may address it. Time has run out on us. We continue in the next episode. See you there.

---
We trust you are blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleros.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pleros community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at @pleros_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
