---
uuid: 9876F8C0EAE84098BF451A51423E82F8
journal: Journal
title: Dark Time 2
created: 2026-03-11T11:14:21+01:00
modified: 2026-03-12T12:26:55+01:00
starred: false
tags:
  -
---

Dark Time 2
I think I’ve run my company’s finances to zero. Impulse spending and buying that has no logic beyond just trying to cope with negative emotions.

I feel so trapped. Like what is the way forward for me. It’s been 3 weeks since I’ve been able to make any progress on eCommOS or on Perez’s CRM.

I’ve been enlisted by the church to work on pleros.org redesign. This is a huge setback for my work. How do I make progress this week? Can’t make any. 

I feel incredibly trapped. That’s how it feels. Like there’s no hope. 

Hope that I’d ever be as driven as I ought to be for my ministry; and mind you, I’m a Pastor.

Hope that I’m ever going to beat my negative financial habits. I mean I just ran the company account down from 750 USD to 20 USD. Yay! Daniel. Big man.

Hope that I’m ever going to feel at home in my marriage to Dolapo. There’s just so much difference between us. I don’t connect with her. She’s always angry at me. I’m always displeased with her because I think she can pull her weight much more in building out her life. Damien is an example. She’s quit by the way.

Hope that I’m going to HAVE THE TIME TO BUILD ECOMMOS. Pleros just always hasd something in store for me to do. It’s a lot. Really, it’s a lot. 

I need help and I’m not even trying to pray because I think God doesn’t care. I;’m doing the illogical and stupid thing of even blaming Him.

I’m not taking responsibility  anymore. The whole pleros redesign thing swallowing up this week really caused me to spiral. Like really  spiral. Spending profusely on Chowdeck. Spending from money that isn’t mine. Going into debt. Watching porn.

It’s bad. 

I need to get a hang of it.

Talk to Him. He hold my life in His hands, He’s the one who made me, surely He has answers of some sort. Surely?
