---
uuid: D3B50B466C5B4FD0BCDF5FE000A95629
journal: Journal
title: Hey
created: 2026-03-30T10:47:10+01:00
modified: 2026-03-30T10:58:22+01:00
starred: false
tags:
  -
---

Hey
Just haven’t felt the need to write much. I’ve been dealing with issues more hands-on — facing anxiety, praying through it. Under-slept, taking that in stride. Late on multiple deadlines, still pushing hard to meet them. Missions this week, I have to say: I’m pumped.

Major themes:
- I feel more and more alienated from my wife. We’re just so different. How she talks, sees the world, relates with work/purpose/etc. She’s incredibly needy, doesn’t have a grand unifying vision of self, very low self-introspection, hates and I mean hates being told that she’s wrong. I’m not sure how I want to raise a child whose Mother I don’t love. These days her touch disgusts me. Like I recoil. It’s that bad. I don’t know what the solution to this is.
- I am 80% done with the CRM v1, I need to travel to Abeokuta tomorrow or Wed to onboard his team? Thinking about it. I have to work real hard today to have this demo ready. The demo then the real thing.
- Pleros website is also 80% done. Much to do there: email flows, email lists, file storage and uploads, etc.
- I fasted on Sat till 9 pm and Sunday till 4pm
- Went to Sabo to pray for the blind. They won’t let me. The Ibrahim youth; preached to him, He walked away smiling. Nodding. It was dusk.
- No business podcasts or the like this week. Fully focused on Winning Our World course by T. L. Osborn
- Listened to tracks 1 - 5 during Friday’s church vigil.
- Sis Oyinkan’s psych- language is still a huge thorn in the flesh. I can’t explain where and from whence this scourge. Like you can read this almost deliberate yet silent aloofness and discomfort. I can’t put my finger on it. Maybe there’s nothing to put a finger on.
- Esther is coming to stay in April, need to finalise plans on this.
- Planning to join Ife for Missions.
- I need clothes. 
- I need to clear my debts. 
- Had a meeting with Samuel Ajewole on Sunday evening. It’s gonna be a weekly thing now. I need to have dedicated times of prayer for him. He would change.
- Had this weird dream about Ese this morning after dozing off. She invited me for a threesome with this dark skinned 50-year old looking man. Said she was going to invite more men to run her through in the bathroom. Strong sexual overtones, etc. Is God calling me to pray for her?
