---
uuid: AB8D8E7C9FC644C78C42469C3DC842FC
journal: Journal
title: # I am OTP\!
created: 2026-02-27T13:48:58+01:00
modified: 2026-02-27T14:02:56+01:00
starred: false
tags:
  -
---

# I am OTP!

I am overwhelmed, terrified and paralysed.

Time seems to have caught up with me. I've run out of time. The things I need to build so I can get out of debt and live cash-flow positive, I've not had the time and strength to build.

My attention is needed in different directions.

I wake at 4:30 am; stew in a dreamy haze as freewill pools into my bones. 5:15 am, I set out to fetch water from wells for 1.5 hours

Come home to prepare the kitchen and food for my wife. Boil and set her water. By now it's 7:30 am

Have to just hang around as she looks for this and that.

I end up not wanting to do my devotion and have been on and off for about 3 weeks.

I need to get this restored.

I am a mess honestly. Nothing seems to be working. I need to get my act together

1. Consistent devotion
2. Fix the dread I have about ministry.

Oh, I feel so much dread. 2000 freshers are about to pool into campus like a flash flood and I feel entirely responsible for ensuring we don't miss out on the harvest. We have to move with speed and drive.

But this comes at a cost. The more available I am, the less time and mental resources I can marshall for EcommOS and Mr Perez's work \(MPW\)

MPW which is due tomorrow by the way and I'm only about 30% done.

==

Back to ministry. Nothing overwhlems me more than the thought of having to enter the arena and have the expectation riding on my head to raise disiciples or in the case of Missions, do the supernatural and pull men into crusades.

My heart immediately starts to palpitate. I enter into flight ot flight mode immediately. It's crazy just how much I avoid ministry now.

The thought of entering a room with the expectation of: "I have to get this man filled with the Holy Ghost and also make a disciple of him" and the responsibility of having to do that x30, x50 people

And then the flyers, stickers, banners, etc. I feel incredibly overwhelmed.

One can argue it's cause my prayer life is on a low. But even when it was on a high, I couldn';t find sufficient time to pray like I knew I was supposed to for my effectiveness ahead of their resumption. And now it's upon me.

==

I think that's like the general theme of my life. I am always late. I'm always without the requisite foundations.

I create debt \(time, money, relationship, spiritual\) that I have to spend all my resources in the present paying off rather than move forward with compounding.

It sucks big time!

==

Oh my biggest problem of all: I am full of doubt about God's power and reliability. That when I need my heart ot be on fire, no matter how hard I pray, I just never seem to have it rid of that ministry-asnxiety. God I hate having ministry anxiety.

It's the worst.

If you ask me, nothign seems to work for me in this faith. Especually the things that count the most. DO you know how many times I've sought the Lord on this matter.

Then waht's the guarantee that I actuallyt have men respond to me or that I see teh supernatural accompany me as I want to.

NONE.

I have no assurances. My life has been such a struggle man. SUch a struggle of justr tring to cvatch up.

trying to have the most basic things work out for me:

1. Unshakeable drive for spiritual assignment
2. Enough time and mental space for material assignment
3. My debts cleared.

You give me these 3 and I am the happiest man on Earth.

But a man that doesn't even believe that God hears him, what hope does he have.

"Help my unbelief"
