# Biblical Origin and Ontology

**00:00**

Welcome to doctrinal summaries 3\. We are looking at the third part of the doctrine as submitted by the apostles, centrally Paul. This one is biblical origin and ontology. We used to call it creation. It's not bad, but I feel like we are using a conclusion for the title, which is not good. The big question here is how do we explain the origin of our world. If we are not able to show that it's by creation, then we shouldn't call it creation. After a while, I changed the title from creation to biblical origin and ontology. That means how do you explain the origin of a contingent and finite world. Nobody is debating the contingency and finitude of the world, but how. Some will say there's no explanation, it just is. Brute fact. That's what we are trying to deal with: biblical origin and ontology, what's going on. The origin and ontology of what we are witnessing. That's what it's about. If it leads us to creation, fine, we should accept that, but I think it's a better title to go that route.

Don't forget this is doctrinal summaries. We are saying there is an exhaustive doctrine that Jesus laid down, passed down to the apostles they have given us, that is necessary to build our confidence and conviction so that we can walk in a way to fulfill God's purpose. I've said before that right after salvation you have received God's purpose, the next burden you have is I want to fulfill God's purpose. Fulfilling God's purpose requires discipleship. The Lord Jesus said that in Matthew chapter 28\. You need discipleship to be able to fulfill purpose.

Let's imagine someone says the assignment, burden, or purpose I have for you is to carry two bags of cement at once on each hand from here to maybe a 400 or 1000-meter distance. I don't know whether that's too much. But you're like, man, I can't do that. But maybe if I gym well enough for maybe one month, I eat the right food, eat eggs, do this, do that, maybe if I follow all the rules and gain some weight and have the right build, I will be able to do it. The person gave you a task that has a goal. But you realize that there's another goal you need to meet in growth to be able to fulfill that eventual purpose. That's precisely how it is. When you enter into God's purpose for your life, you are seeing that I must fulfill God's purpose, but you need to first get to the point in growth where you can fulfill that. To get to that point, the Lord says you need discipleship. There is a building, a training, a strengthening by discipleship that is supposed to happen to you. That discipleship will perfect you as a saint.

**05:00** That's why when Paul speaks about Ephesians 4, he said the leaders are given for the perfecting of the saints. That will bring them to this point that God wants them to be at. The perfect man. The measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. How will they get there? By the doctrine. They will come to the unity of the faith, knowledge of the Son of God. Then they will be in faith about that knowledge. There's that knowledge of the word that we need, and we said it is definite.

The apostles have laid down that doctrine the Lord said they should. Paul shows that he has a central role there, and Peter acknowledges him in that light as well. Paul actually says that twice. First Corinthians, some will argue that it's just contextual, but I don't think so. Then Ephesians chapter 3\. That one is definitely not contextual. Paul is showing his role in the submission of the message. He tells Timothy, you have fully known my doctrine. There's a definite body of knowledge that Timothy had fully learned from Paul. He told him in 2 Timothy 2:2, pass it down to other people the same way.

There's an outline of the doctrine that is designed to build the believer into that point in growth where he's able to walk how God desires him to. If they say, can you say this about God, how are you sure that's even correct? He says, calm down, you can think about it yourself. The one that is revelation, he will say that one is revelation. And say this is why we can also trust this particular revelation. But this one I'm telling you, you are supposed to see it yourself. That there is God, that this is his status. That this is his character, that this is his ability. That this is his mind—we have to go into revelation at that point. It is hidden in God. It's a mystery that must be revealed. Then these are his activities as a result. You must be able to explain. He is stable because he has gone through the doctrine.

One of the things I wanted to say about why we are looking at doctrinal summaries is that Paul's ability to state the doctrine summarily is part of your grasp of the doctrine. Sometimes we say, I can't say all these things now, we have to get into very long teachings about it. How many people will go through all the long teachings? Your ability to say, what is it I need to know about God, and say it's quite comprehensive, but I can give you the entire outline in a summary form. It's part of your effectiveness in the knowledge of God's word. That I know God in a wholesome way. Even though I still need to explain more details, like if you give me this text I might not be able to fully dissect it now, but I know the boundaries. That this is likely speaking of the sovereignty of God because I attribute everything to Him, but I might need to get a better light and explanation on it, but I know this.

**10:00** The same thing now goes to the subject matter we are about to look at, which is biblical origin and ontology. When Paul says in Ephesians chapter 3 that he has given us that summary of the doctrine, the second thing we see that Paul puts in his outline is biblical origin and ontology. Ontology just means the nature of something. The way something is. The being, the nature, the state of something. The ontology here is the ontology of our world. The origin here is also the origin of our world. We just call it biblical origin and ontology of everything of our world. We don't need to put any other thing there, that's what we are pointing to.

We've talked about God. Everything we are seeing, what's it all about? From God. What's the origin and ontology? Under God we have already sort of answered that. But we need to examine it on its own, particularly the ontology, and reaffirm that origin. Let's go to Ephesians chapter 3\. Paul says in Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 3, how that by revelation God has made known to me the mystery which I have briefly written already. The ability to have a summary of the doctrine is itself part of your skillfulness with the message. There's a comprehensive, exhaustive, detailed study. But can you just tell someone the answer? Some people say, I can't tell you, we have to study, and I know some things are detailed, I'm not denying. But despite that, Paul still gave a summary. You should be able to state some things summarily. Not that that will resolve everybody's doubt or answer every question in the way a more detailed study would make someone more settled. But at least to be able to give someone the requisite stability to start with is very important. Otherwise, people are going to live their entire Christian life in doubt and shakiness. Some people can't get to look at some of the doctrines exhaustively. Level 5 is work.

You have to be stable to say, I get it now, these are the foundational things. Particularly look at that study we did on God. You should be able to have that stability that now I get it. This is who He is. It should bring confidence to your faith. It's not someone that will do evil. Evil might happen for whatever reasons, but I know I can rely on what I know about His character. Aside from bibliology, which is defending the source and authority of the source of the doctrine—something Paul mentioned to Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 3—and then God and His eternal purpose, what we can also call theology proper, we are looking at biblical origin and ontology, which we sometimes simply call creation. Study of the natural world or the created world, the world as God made it at origin. This is something I want us to appreciate. Another reason why we call it biblical origin is to have an appreciation of the Bible's role in discussing the origin of our world.

**15:00** Sometimes people are expecting of the Bible a role that it does not have. It can give us the answer to the metaphysical origin of the world. But it's not expected to give us the answer to the scientific origin of the world. Like how do we explain how it all began to play out since then. It can play its own role rightly so in submitting the truth about our world, that it resulted by such and such. But it's not expected that it tells us the scientific means and process by which that happened. Expecting that of Scripture is likely going to read it the wrong way. That's not something that it set out to do.

In Ephesians chapter 1, where Paul gives a summary of his doctrine, Ephesians 1 and verse 3, he says blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. He's talking about our present reality; He has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. Verse 4, just as He chose us in Him. Look at how far back. He has blessed us now in Christ, then He says just as He chose us in Him before when? Remember under the summary of God and His purpose, we saw that choosing us is not us in ourselves. It's rather a choice with a condition, a choosing based on the conditions set. Which now becomes personalized to us. We must be honest about the fact, lest we are stating that which is contrary to what reflects the truth of God. How far back was this decision about who He wants, about who He is choosing, made? Verse 4, just as He chose us before the foundation of the world. I like the choice of the word there, foundation, katabole. It shows that sense of origin, when something was put down. We can say in that sense, before the origin of the world. There was in His mind the conception of what He wants before He originated it at all. We are seeing a discussion that pertains to origin. Biblical origin and ontology.

He says before the foundation of the cosmos. There is a world he's talking about. He says that world, there was a point it was founded, it originated. He's claiming here that it must have originated by God, something that the gospel affirms as well in Romans chapter 1\. We have seen this under several teachings, but let's go back there one more time. This time around I'll probably refer to Romans 10 and Psalm 19, because here we would have to visit the Old Testament text a bit. What he's saying is that because of the ontology of this cosmos we are seeing, we can tell that it has a foundation. The ontology of this cosmos is why we can tell the nature of it. Because by nature it is finite. Because by nature it is contingent. Finite means it is limited. Infinite means it's unlimited. Unlimited can mean unlimited in time. When we say unlimited time for God, that would be a difficult thing because we are simply trying to look into a realm that is timeless. A realm that is difficult for us to look into. When we talk about observation and reason, it pertains to our world and it pertains to reason generally, but there's a limit to it. When we are looking at the way God is, there's a limit to which our reason can work there because that realm is not as accessible as this one. We can make conclusions about this one that there is that realm, but the operations of that realm is more difficult for our mind to grasp. That's where we'll sometimes find ourselves needing revelation or sometimes accepting things by revelation that we cannot fully resolve with reason. This is very important, and there are about three conclusions like that that you have to accept by revelation, even though you cannot fully reconcile them with reason. And this is the reason why.

**20:00** I can't get into those now. We are still about truth. It's just that these are things that it won't be out of place to accept by revelation, like the "why" question. It won't be out of place to accept by revelation. It would be out of place to say God can do good and evil and we just accept that by revelation. That one would be out of place. That's a contradiction; that's saying X and not X are the same in the same respect. It won't make any sense that He gave us our reason and we expect to accept that. But there are such things that are of such kind when something is "why" or when something is within a domain that is now far beyond our observation and reason. It's not concluding that there is that domain that is the issue. It's explaining that domain; sometimes you just have to accept revelation about how that domain is. These affect the way the Christian sees the nature of God. Something we didn't really get into as much, we just talked about status, character, ability. I should have talked about the Trinity. Why would we accept the Trinity? We are dealing with matters that are in a domain that are not within the scope of our observation. That domain, we can arrive at it via what is within the scope of our observation. But the operations of the domain is not within the scope of our observation and reason. At that juncture, if we find only this truth now revealing that, we are to accept it. However challenging for our reason it is. Like we accept the purpose, that one is not challenging per se, that's just what God's purpose is. But to now say accept another worldview that does not resolve what we can see with observation and reason because it's more convenient from the standpoint of observation and reason about a domain that is not here, will not be the way to go. Let me save you all the big English, back to Romans.

Romans 1\. What do we observe about the nature of our cosmos, our world, that helps us to explain its origin, its foundation? What do we understand about the nature of it? I was talking about it is finite, meaning it is limited. We can see that limitation from the standpoint of time. If it is limited in time, it means it has not always been. Therefore requires explanation. But it can even be infinite in time and still limited in its nature. Its ontology is still limited in the sense that it is finite by contingency; it didn't have to be. Which means it is not just a state necessarily, it's a finite state that was made to be because it didn't have to be. It's still finite by virtue of contingency. Contingency means it did not have to be. Therefore that it is requires an explanation. The opposite of contingency is that it just has to be necessary. That one cannot be said to be finite, that's just how the thing is. Particularly if this is the state of fullness. It's just how it is. Romans chapter 1\. He says the gospel of Christ, the power of God unto salvation. You can see the Ephesians 1 idea there where the gospel is called the truth. Verse 17 says the righteousness of God is revealed towards those who believe. Verse 18 says the wrath of God is revealed towards those who don't believe. But he described them as those who are suppressing the truth in unrighteousness. He's saying that the same gospel some believe to have righteousness is the one that some suppress, which leads to the wrath of God.

**25:00** He called what they are suppressing truth. He's calling the gospel the truth. Why is he calling it truth? Because what may be known of God is manifest in them, in their reason, for God has shown it to them, to their observation. For since the creation of the world His invisible attributes are clearly seen—observation—being understood—reason—by the things that are made. Two things are there. For since the creation of the cosmos. That means that space of what we refer to as the world that we observe, that material world that spans our solar system, whatever dimension of scope they want to give our cosmos, the universe, has a point of creation. It's an affirmation. The statement says from the creation of the world. That means our world as it operates began to do so from an origin. Then he says, being understood by the things that are made. This refers to ontology, the nature of the world. The word meant "made" there is the Greek word that points to works, deeds, action, activities taking place. In relation to the cosmos, this points to the works of nature, the operations of our world. As observed, we can see that it operates by natural laws. It has functions and operations that are finite and contingent. Very important words. The nature, operation, status of our world is that it is finite, it is limited. We can observe things like time and matter; these are parameters that define limitation. As they exist, when something happens, the next moment it is changing, it is altering. It is telling us that that particular one has ended. It is finite.

The laws and all the forces that are keeping it working, gravity, all sorts of forces at work, are limited forces. It is not operating in infinite capacities or states. It is simply limited. Because of this limitation, it points to contingency. If it is limited, it means it didn't have to be in the final state it is. Meaning it is caused. Our world happens not to be necessary. Which means there is no reason by observation that demands that the world must be. It just simply exists. But it didn't necessarily have to. If it exists but happens to be finite, limited, we can speak of it in time, but even if not in time, by virtue of its contingency it is limited yet by nature. This observation we make about the world leads us to explain that its origin is that it is caused. Because when you see a contingent thing, you have to explain it. Before you can say the contingent thing just is, which is not the normal way rational inquiry is done, you must first seek to explain it. Only if the explanation fails within itself can you then say well it just is. I venture to say, even though people will give objections that we handle at the higher level, those explanations do not fail in themselves. They should be the natural thing we accept. That's why Paul says after them seeing this, they now profess to be wise, they start seeking evidence against it, and in doing so, he says they become fools. Let's go to Romans 10\. This observation of the ontology of the world is not unique to the New Testament text. The observation that the world is finite and contingent, Paul will say everybody can see that, and they ought to believe in God as well as in redemption.

**30:00** In Romans 10, when he was talking about everybody should believe the gospel, you can read it from verse 13\. For whosoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How shall they call upon Him whom they have not believed. How shall they believe on Him they have not heard. Go all the way to verse 18\. He said they can't believe on someone they have not heard. They can't call on someone they have not believed, and they can't believe on someone they have not heard. The real question here is, have they heard? On one hand, he first said, can they hear except they are sent? But he's going to show us that God has sent something else to testify so that everyone can hear even before people. Look at verse 18: but I say, have they not heard? What's the answer he gave? Yes indeed. Their sound has gone out to all the earth. Their words to the ends of the world. What is he talking about? He's quoting from Psalm 19\. Go to Psalm 19 and see it yourself. This evidence, witness that has gone out into all the world. Psalm 19 and verse 1: to the chief musician, a Psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of the Lord. He's saying that the world, cosmos, that we are witnessing is testifying to a self-existent supreme source. Declares the glory of God. The firmament show His handiwork. Handiwork again is pointing to contingency. Something that doesn't have to be, therefore it is made to be so. It is not necessary in its nature, therefore it is made to be so. He won't only point out the contingency of the world. He first said heavens declares glory of God. Firmament is handiwork. They show themselves to be something made, they show themselves to be contingent. Verse 2 will show us finitude.

I hope all these things are not too much. I hope over time it becomes common to people's understanding. I knew at the beginning there's a friction of all this big English. Verse 2 says day unto day utter speech. That means when we see time counting forward, it's telling us something. That's the testimony of finitude. When time is counting forward, the implication is it cannot count backward endlessly; it is finite. Because if it counts backward endlessly, it means it is still counting backwards till now in a way that today will never have arrived. A backward count is happening in an infinite way that can never allow us to get to today. Let me use an example. We can have infinity in mathematics where we start with zero, then we say minus one. Is there any end to that minus? No. There is literally no end. Numbers can continue endlessly. There's no end to that minus. Minus one trillion, quadrillion, it can go on literally forever. Numbers just need to keep being added.

He's saying that when I see day unto day, things are counting forward in time. Things cannot go backward without end, otherwise, because they will keep going backward without end, we cannot get to today. Which means day onto day is telling me that this world is finite. Day unto day utter speech, night onto night utter knowledge. The finitude of the world is talking to us. It is not possible that this world is not finite. Verse two is what will be called the cosmological argument. Verse one, which I'm saying is talking about contingency based on the word handiwork, is the contingency argument or an ontological argument. He's saying there is the testimony of the necessity of God as the most rational, most probable conclusion about our world. Most rational, I'm saying in the degrees of rational judgment from impossible to possible to plausible to probable, this is the most rational in the sense that it is most probable. Even if you can say it's plausible that it's brute fact, it is not most probable with the evidence we have.

**35:00** He says day unto day utter speech, night unto night utter knowledge. There is no speech or language where their voice is not heard. I was having a conversation with someone. I said there is nowhere people have not arrived at the conclusion of God before. It's not possible there's a people, culture, or place, because the testimony of God is everywhere. There's no people, culture, or place they have not arrived at the conclusion of God before. In fact, I can further argue there's no people, culture, or place they have not arrived at the condition of redemption before. That's why people always seek deliverance from problems. We know that those things are not right and that there's a need for the right. There is nowhere people have not heard the faith of redemption before. How they now eventually from there start to pass it out is a separate issue. But that the message of God or redemption has not been anywhere is not true. It is inescapable for man. The reliance on God for that deliverance, salvation, redemption, or reliance on self is a separate issue. But there is no place where people have not witnessed that reality of God or necessity of redemption. This is a domain in a particular domain. I will argue that. It's just the way of humanity. Biblical origin and ontology. The ontology of our world leads us to a conclusion about its origin that it must be caused by a non-finite, non-contingent, that is necessary being, a self-existent being.

Therefore, it must have been created by God. Creation is a conclusion relative to the ontology of our world. Creation is a conclusion about the origin. Creation is a conclusion about the origin of our world based on its ontology. Concluding that God made the world. Typically at this point, people have the question: fine, you have said God made the world, they will now ask how. And they will say, can the Bible tell us how God made the world? The Bible is not designed to tell you how, other than He did it by His power, which is a metaphysical answer. His self-existent power, intelligence, and character brought forth the world. Science can study and see the exact motions of that how. But that is not the role of the Bible. Why do I say this? When I say creation is the conclusion, it's not for you to go to Genesis 1 or Genesis 2 and say that creation account is how the world was brought forth, it was brought forth in six days. That is not what I'm talking about. If you go there, you'll be misreading the text. It is not the role of the text to do that. The text is only making this metaphysical conclusion. This world we are witnessing, finite and contingent, must have come from a non-finite, non-contingent cause equal or greater to it, God, that has intelligence, character, ability.

What I'm witnessing here, is it a literal account? On many counts, no, the creation account. Of course, sometimes we will be told that there are two creation accounts. On a separate level in critical scholarship, they start talking about the Yahwist and the Elohist. For us as believers in Christ Jesus, the entire text is taken as one piece of God's orchestrated revelation for us. A critical scholar might say it's one particular writer that wrote this, that he was not mindful about this and all that. For us again, coming from what we have studied in bibliology, this is God's orchestration as the one text for us. These two creation accounts, we have to embrace both and understand them with sound philosophical reasoning. What a critical scholar will say, you are just negotiating the text, just accept their contradiction like that. We have to accept it like Jesus, like Paul. I can get into those now.

**40:00** When we see the two creation accounts, Genesis 1 and Genesis 2, we have to read them and understand their own role, because the role they serve is not a scientific one. The Bible, not being a scientific document, has its work. We would be right to say the Bible is a philosophical material. The Bible is a theological material, yes, in the sense that the revelation of God is being discussed, but even arriving at God is a metaphysics issue, which is philosophy. It's discussing ethics, discussing epistemology. The same book tells us that by observation and reason we know there is God. So we are seeing epistemology—how we get knowledge—logic, ethics, metaphysics. This is a philosophical material. What kind of Christian do you want to be? You don't have a choice. Your Christianity, your Bible is philosophical; you have no choice but to be one. You might be talking about worldly philosophy and criticizing that and criticizing other kinds of philosophy, but the Bible itself, if you say what domain does it fall to, it's a philosophical material. Claiming to be truth, that's already a philosophical material. The mere claim of truth is epistemology. The manner in which you arrive at truth is epistemology and logic. The things it studies: metaphysics, ethics, morality.

These are the core domains of philosophy. But we now understand that it's theological because in arriving at the conclusion that there is God, it starts to study that God. It's a theological material. When I see the creation account, I must understand that they don't serve a scientific role. I'm dealing with a philosophical material. As far as I'm concerned, I'm told that this world in this philosophical material, Romans 1, is brought about by God's self-existent power. His eternal power and Godhead. That's what we are told. We are not told Big Bang, we are not told this or that, we are just told by His power. In fact, the six-day creation account as people purport can never be an actual creation account. The happenings in the six days were not even creation at all. If at all, they were redemptive. The first day was bringing back light where there was darkness, whilst they told us the meaning of darkness itself is that light has been withdrawn. Implying that there was light originally, light went, was withdrawn, and then light was being restored. So it's a redemption account, that Genesis 1, 2, and 3\.

If we are handling it philosophically. Some that want to handle it critically say this person is writing this, this other person is writing that. They will argue against that; that's their lot. Holding the materials together as one, as is our own duty in bibliology, and handling it philosophically, we are seeing a redemptive account, Genesis 1:1 to Genesis 2:3. Light is brought back. There's a flooded earth, a space is put there so that there can be life again. Light is brought back, now space is being made for life. In a flooded place, there can't be life. The birds will die. The fishes of course as well will die in the flooded state, they themselves will die. Plants will die. Any form of animal life, including humans, will die. So He's bringing about space, the second day, for life to exist. That's why the third day, He gathers the water together, there's dry land, vegetative life happens. The fourth day, there's the sun and all of that. The fifth day, fishes of the sea, birds of the air, life is restored. Sixth day, animal and man. Light is restored, life is restored. It's a redemptive account.

It's an account saying there's an original intention, something went wrong, there's a restoration within six days leading to the seventh day of rest. Which is consistent. The idea of rest subsequently was about God's redemption plan being completely fulfilled, that's how they kept reading it across the Scripture. When I'm reading that creation, all I need to know is God created, He's the one that brought forth the world. The accounts themselves are not how He created. That's a separate thing entirely. We must read those properly to understand what they are doing. I'm telling you that that first one is a redemption account. The second one we can say is indeed just saying that God created; that's why it's not explaining in detail. In fact, in that one, animals were created after man. Which is funny because we were told that man was taken from the dust of the ground, which makes sense of the idea of evolution. That means it is via the physics and chemistry that we arrive at the biology that brings forth man. In this sense, we must be careful of saying the Bible is contradicting what we have observed by science. I feel so bad. I saw someone that was saying he's now maybe an agnostic. Why? Maybe the flood of Noah. People get into agnosticism for something that the Bible did not cause.

**45:00** Something that interpretation caused. They were expecting that the Bible was literally saying something that it was not saying. Instead of reading it in its literary light. That means in literature this is a mytho-history, and they were reading it as something else, then get offended when they see something from science. It has become a stumbling block. What was not the Bible's own problem, but an interpretation problem. Unfortunately, their fellowship with God hampered just on that. Over time they start to seek further justification for their position, strengthening their heart when the real issue that started it was just an interpretation issue. I feel bad. We must be careful how we approach this issue of biblical origin and ontology lest we abuse the text and it starts to cost our walk with God. People will say, people were living for 900 years, and I study science, I found out they were not living for 900 years. It's a mytho-history. In fact, the Epic of Gilgamesh, where that account was first originally seen in written form before even the Bible's account, used more than 900 years. People were living for 30,000 years, 20,000 years in the Epic of Gilgamesh. This one even mellowed it.

There is a reason for that elongated span of time. It is because, before they could write, they are claiming that human history has been spanning for long. Which is another separate issue that again, by science, we have come to appreciate that the idea of humans just starting six or seven thousand years ago, even ten thousand years ago, is not correct. It can be traced as far back—some will even argue 100,000, some say 400,000, some say 700,000—where the humans that are philosophical beings started to exist. There are different positions different theologians and philosophers hold. Christians hold on that matter. I am even willing, should I say it in this kind of summary, to go as far as 400,000. Usually, I prefer to still stay around 100,000 thereabouts. I have no problem with that at all. All those days are only showing the length of memory they are referring to from the point where they are giving a record in a summary form. I won't get into all those details; those are part of bibliology. When you listen to bibliology, you'll see that under biblical literature, biblical history, and historicity, you will see there on level five. Please don't let an unnecessary interpretation issue become a stumbling block for your faith.

Those accounts are serving another purpose. One is simply giving you a redemption account, one is simply saying creation happened and that it happened with physics, chemistry, biology. Man came from normal physical matter. Came from the dust of the ground. Let's move on in our summary of biblical origin and ontology. One core question we must answer is, what's the purpose of creation? The purpose of creation is rooted in the purpose of the Creator. What is it all about? Sometimes faced with creation, the world, the cosmos, we are faced with existential questions: what's the point of all of this? That's found in the mind of the Creator; it can only be known by revelation. We have seen that already under several teachings, including the last part of these doctrinal summaries. What is God's mind, His purpose? Sonship. That will help us to appreciate the role of every piece that makes up this world. Of everything that composes this world. When we know the purpose, we can say this is the role of this, this is the role of that. It will help us to appreciate the content and the composition of creation. When we know the purpose of creation, we can appreciate the content, composition, and relation of creation. How they relate amongst themselves, what affects what, which one affects the other, how does this one affect this one. When we appreciate the purpose of creation, sonship, which we see is by revelation, we are able to see how they relate.

**50:00** When you get to biblical origin and ontology, you will see that we get into the study of the content and composition of creation of this world. At this point, our study of content and composition of creation will go beyond observation and reason to include revelation. I will sum it up in this way: there are four things that make up the world in biblical origin and ontology of the world. Number one, there is the material world. Number two, there is the spiritual world. Number three, there are angels, and number four, there is man. Four things that make up the world. Number one is the material world, number two is the spiritual world, number three angels, and man. You can get that sense even from Genesis 1, when God said let the heaven and the earth. There's heaven and there's earth. There's the heaven upon the earth. The idea of heaven and earth is that there is heaven upon the earth. Let me explain that, because at least you should understand this one at this point even in summaries. The picture we are given of the world, go to Genesis 1\. Heaven is not taught as something far off in Scripture; heaven is taught as something here and now. Let me clarify this.

A very foundational understanding of the nature of our world is that it is a spiritual world overlapping the natural. It's heaven upon the earth. You must understand this at level two. I think there's a teaching "What exactly is heaven?" or "True Temple Worship" that might help. "Navigating the Supernatural" might help you understand the concept of heaven better. See Genesis chapter 1 and verse 6\. What makes up our world from a biblical standpoint, the Bible being the authoritative document for truth and revelation? Four things: natural/material world, spiritual world, angels, and man. Genesis chapter 1 and verse 6\. God said, let there be a firmament. That word firmament in the Hebrew is the word raqiya that simply means space. R-a-q-i-y-a. It simply means space. Let there be space, an expanse of space, in the midst of the waters. At this point the earth was fully flooded, everywhere was water top to bottom, that's the idea. As though the earth is a box and everywhere was water top to bottom. Then He said let there be a space between them. And that should divide the waters from the waters. Look at verse 7\. God made the firmament, the space, raqiya, and divided the waters that were under the firmament from the waters that were above the firmament. What are the waters under the firmament? We call that seas. The waters above is what we call clouds. This is not a scientific explanation, it is simply doing a description to make a statement. Look at verse 8\. And He called the firmament heaven. The space between the clouds and the seas, the space in between. Where is that space? Here. Is what He called heaven. I'm not the one that wrote it.

He's calling the space between the clouds up and the seas down heaven. If they ask you where is heaven, would you have said that? You would have said heaven is high above. There are texts you have for that because those texts are serving another purpose, talking about the authority of God over everything He created. Very important that you pay attention. He's saying heaven is right here. It's in Genesis 1\. Think about it. He said in verse 9, let the waters under the heaven be gathered together in one place and let the dry land appear. You notice He didn't create the dry land, it was already there but it was all flooded. Let the waters under the seas be gathered together. He called the gathering of the water seas and the dry land He called earth. If we say heaven on earth, in Genesis 1, heaven on earth was this space upon this natural earth. Heaven on earth, He was bringing forth a conception of a spiritual world overlapping a natural world. That means our dwelling is a spiritual world overlapping a natural world. This is consistent in Scripture. Since this is a summary we don't have time, but you see the idea of Jacob's ladder. It's not as much as a ladder because really it is just right here. But it is showing that there's an interaction between that spiritual world here and this natural world also here. Is it only on the earth that it is like that? No, because man has gone to the moon, man may eventually get to Mars, we will still be in heaven on earth, which is a spiritual world overlapping a natural world. The principle remains. We are in a spiritual world overlapping a natural world.

**55:00** In fact, people have stayed in the International Space Station for months. Still a spiritual world. If you go to the International Space Station, you are praying to God. It's still a spiritual world overlapping a natural world. Very important. What's the composition of our world? Biblical origin and ontology: natural world, spiritual world, angels, and man. Of course, in the natural world there are animals and all that, we're not focused on that. We're talking about the parts that are interacting in this very grand manner. Natural world, spiritual world, angels, and man. Of course, we can say God, but we understand He's the creator of the world, He's not in the world itself, but He relates in the world fully with every person and more so with those who are His. When you get to the full teaching, you will see the role of each of them. All I can do for now is give you a summary. Particularly, I'll just comment on angels. What's the role of angels? Angels were given by God to serve man. Let's just put it like that. I don't want to go into so much detail, but for now, at this level, you need to know that. You should find a teaching on angels in level 3\. You need to know the role of angels because sometimes people mix it up, like angels were created par to par with man or above man. No. Angels were created to serve man. One of the vital proofs of angels that man has always discerned by observation and reason is the level of precision to orchestration in our world. I don't think there's anyone that has never experienced that thing where you see an orchestration, you see that this is not normal. How everything was arranged, fitted, and suited to a situation. Like I was talking to some people on a matter, like to the T, to the time, to the minute, to the second, and with funny little details in between. Funny little details that could have changed the course of events just if one of them failed, and everything was arranged to the T for an event. You are like, that is not normal. I have experienced several, and I've also heard several. Something is going on.

Of course, we can generally say well God can do anything. But what I'm trying to say is that we have seen it happen for both good and evil, where someone's life can be arranged to the T for evil. Just happened to be there, happened to be there, this happened, then this, then that, that's how he got into a mess. There is a spiritual intelligence for both good and evil behind the scenes of the events of our world. Like the orchestration of Haman in the book of Esther and the orchestration of Esther in the same material. There's an orchestration of evil that was happening, as much as there's an orchestration of good. Everybody was playing their role. If everybody didn't play their role, the event could have gone another way. The Israelites that went into captivity could have suffered again if they did not play their role. That intelligence is not just in the Bible. You have seen it in real life, in your own life. If I wasn't just here, if someone just prayed, I just happened to be there. I just needed to have been there to hear Uncle Akin that day. He needed to have given me that book, Midas Touch, that day. Any of those details missed might be a different story we are talking about today. Maybe I'll just be somewhere in the US holding a mic, giving a speech about how when we look at the society, we have to change the nations. A useless life. And I'll be so happy making impact. A world that will end. If you are doing it in view of an eternal thing, maybe. But just wastefully. Essentially what protects the devastation, saying we have to preserve the climate and arguing about climate change. Why am I trying to preserve a climate of a world we already know is destined to end? For our children? Someone will still suffer this thing. Because the world is already going like this.

As much as we can survive. Human civilization is worth protecting. What is human civilization worth protecting? All these things people say, they don't even think deeply. And they will say they don't believe in God. Why are you protecting humanity? Just be a nihilist in peace. The composition of our world is a natural world, a spiritual world, angels, and man. We can't go into details on angels here, you'll get to level 3 and understand that. But angels are made, they are the spiritual intelligence behind, and it's both ways. Very important that we are aligned rightly. When we understand the composition, we will see how they are interacting with the reality of God's purpose and how it affects them. God's purpose is sonship. He wants us to have His life, to share His nature. That all terminates on man. Whatever man decides affects everything else in the dynamics of how God made the world, origin and ontology. It affects everything else, including angels. This is so important because in the next summary you'll understand the value of it when we look at sin and its implication. Did sin affect angels? How did it affect them? Why can't the devil be saved again? All those types of questions people ask. We'll get to them very slightly, but you still need the comprehensive teaching for that. But for summary's sake, this is the composition of our world: natural world, spiritual world, angels, and man. You know the natural world. You are living in a spiritual world as well. Events are happening there, majorly orchestrations affecting what we see naturally. How? By angels. And all of this happening all around man.

**01:00:00** Angels are meant to serve man. For the sake of angels, maybe I'll give you one text for the sake of summary: Psalm 103 and verse 20-21. Let's just use that one. This is enough for biblical origin and ontology. I think it's fair, the summaries are good enough, at least for this level you should know these things. Angels are created as well. Sometimes they are described with the idea of stars. I know there's an interaction people try to talk about between angels and the state of the world as fallen. But all those issues we cannot discuss them in summary, I might bring them up a bit under sin. Some of these arguments I think may be weak, but we should at least be aware of them. Psalm 103 and verse 20, bless the Lord you His angels who excel in strength. It's just like if you get a servant for your child. You don't want a servant that is like your child. A bodyguard. You don't want a bodyguard that is like your child. That is not a bodyguard, those are friends. You want a bodyguard that can serve your child. Who excel in strength, who do His word. This is so important. Let me read again: bless the Lord you His angels, who excel in strength, who do His word, heeding the voice of His word. Very important, and the question has always been the voice of His word, who voices it? We can't get into so much detail here, you'll see it in level three.

You will hear some things that they will talk about angels also in the exhaustive teaching. You will see the role of man in giving that voice to God's word that angels hearken to. You will see that man plays that place in his authority of the throne of God. He uses the authority of the throne of God, directing the activity of angels. Verse 21 says bless the Lord all you His hosts, you ministers of His who do His pleasure. Bless the Lord all His works in all places of dominion. The idea that angels, like angels of light, the good angels, obey believers whether they tell them to do evil or good is not a very good biblical conclusion. Demons will serve words of darkness like angels will serve the voice of God's word. Even if the voice is a believer's voice for darkness, they will serve it. It is their program. We must be clear on these matters. For summary's sake, that's what we can handle at this point. We'll pick it up in level three, you'll see more on that. There is concerning Satan and demons level three, there's on angels as well level three, you see more on that, and in the exhaustive level five you get more details. I hope this is clear. We bring this to a close. Catch you in the next one, doctrinal summaries number four.
