# God's Wisdom toward Redemption

**00:00** All right brothers and sisters, we are looking at God's wisdom towards redemption. Let me remind us of everything we are seeing generally. We said after we receive salvation and we enter into God's purpose for our lives, our greatest desire is that we want to fulfill that purpose that God has for us. But when you want to fulfill a purpose, you first need to be developed, to be mature, to grow to the point where you are able to do that purpose.

I'll use the example we have been using. If someone tells you to carry two bags of cement, which is pretty heavy for almost everybody, and carry it from here to a 500-meter distance, and you must not drop it. You carry that bag of cement once and walk a 500-meter distance and drop it there. You're like, oh boy, I don't think I can do this yet. Because of that purpose that the person has given you, your first assignment is to build yourself to the point where you are now able to do that purpose. You carry the two bags of cement because you have built yourself and carry it all the way that 500-meter distance and then you drop it. If you don't build yourself, you will fail in that purpose. If God gives you a purpose, your first goal must be growth.

That's what He tells us in God's word. When Jesus saves us and brings us to His purpose, He says, you guys need to be discipled. He said, go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost. Get them saved, then teach them to observe all things I've commanded you. Remember that the Lord Jesus said that when you are discipled, you will become as the master. He said, a disciple cannot be more than his master, but he that is perfectly trained will be as his master. He's telling us that you need the stature, you need the build, you need the level of growth that the master has to do His assignment for you.

What I like about what Jesus said in Luke chapter 6 and verse 40, is that Paul used the same word in Ephesians 4:12. He said, Jesus gave the leaders of the church to perfect the saints. The same word, *katartismos*. The reason for the church is to build you to become like the master. He gave them to perfect the saints till we come to the perfect man, the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. The build, the growth that God wants you to have to fulfill God's purpose will happen to you in the church.

Another thing Paul told us is that growth is going to happen to us by knowledge. We need the knowledge of God's word to grow and be strong the way He wants us to be. Go to Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 1\. "For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for you Gentiles, if indeed you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which was given to me for you, how that by revelation He has made known to me the mystery, as I have briefly written already." That means the earlier part of this material, Paul is saying that the revelation God gave to me, I've written it to you in this earlier part of the document. Now see verse 4\. "By which when you read, you will understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ." He has made it clear to them so that when they go and read it, they will understand. The same thing is true about us. When we go and read it, we'll understand the knowledge or the wisdom that God gave to Paul.

That's what we were reading earlier, Ephesians chapter 1\. What did Paul receive from God? One of the things we saw is that the knowledge and understanding that Paul received relates with redemption from sin. We studied sin first, to understand what sin is in God's word. We saw that sin is not just random acts of wrongdoing. Sin at its core is rejecting God's truth and purpose, which renders the world in a state that is contrary to God's life, that is contrary to God's light. I want us to read Ephesians 1 from verse 7 downwards to verse 9 again. Ephesians 1:7 says, in Him, talking about Jesus, we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of His grace. Today, we know that we have redemption in Christ, via what Christ has done, according to the riches of God's grace. But now look at verse 8\. He said, which He made to abound towards us. That means the way God brought that redemption to pass was via His wisdom and prudence. It means that before redemption happened, God had to work it out by His wisdom, by His prudence for that redemption to happen.

**05:00** Let me explain the word wisdom and prudence again. Wisdom means clarity. I used to teach from the book of Proverbs that there are seven steps in the journey of wisdom. In any area of life, if you are going to have wisdom, you must understand the seven steps in the journey of wisdom. The first one is truth. On any matter that you need wisdom, there's already the truth about that matter. Let's use an example. If someone is saying, I want to know how to make money. There's already the truth about how to make money. Whether you know it or not does not change the fact that there is the truth about how to make money. Let's say someone wants to multiply money in investment. There's also the truth about how to multiply money. Let's say someone wants to make a particular phone, maybe an iPhone 17 Pro Max. There's the truth about how to make it. There's the exact process that was followed by the manufacturers. There's the truth about it. But the person needs the knowledge of it.

The truth about it already exists, but you need the knowledge of that truth. The second step in wisdom is knowledge. The third step, you need instruction. You are going to get that knowledge by instruction. Someone will tell it to you. There's the truth about how to make the phone, there's the knowledge of it, someone gives that knowledge to you by instruction. What do you get as they are giving you instruction? You are getting understanding. It starts to make sense to you. You are putting it together. The moment you have completed your understanding, what that is called is wisdom. The state where that matter is very clear to you. If it's about how to make a car, someone shows you exactly how to do it. Once the person has explained it, you now know how to make that car completely. They will say you are wise. The person has wisdom on this matter. He understands it very well. What he now needs to do is to be doing further research. But about how this thing operates, he understands it.

Step one is truth. Step two is knowledge. Step three is instruction. Step four is understanding. Step five is counsel. The moment someone knows how to make a car completely, if you tell the person that car is sounding like this, because they have been taught and have understood it, they can give you counsel. Once you have wisdom, you can counsel others. If someone that doesn't have wisdom should give you counsel, you will suffer in this world. If someone has limited wisdom, a degree of understanding, and the person is now giving you counsel beyond their knowledge, you will suffer. That's why you must be discerning.

Number seven is prudence. You get counsel. One thing is that the person gives you counsel, it's another thing that you follow the counsel. When you follow the counsel exactly, that's what the Bible calls prudence. By the time it tells us that God has fulfilled redemption by His wisdom and prudence, it is so important because this is where people struggle with understanding the Bible. They are like, human beings were the ones doing what they were doing, how did everything lead to Christ? What is God's role here? There is the carefulness of God's wisdom and prudence that brought about the fulfillment of redemption. If we do not read the Bible prudently, knowing that what we are reading is God's wisdom and prudence to fulfill redemption, we will be misinterpreting events. They are not reading it seeing His wisdom and prudence through the events that have happened to bring about redemption. That's why we call it God's wisdom towards redemption. Reading the account of the Old Testament text accurately, wisely, prudently, to see exactly how God fulfilled redemption.

**10:00** Some people have a bad reading of the scriptures. They don't understand how the events were happening. They sometimes impute on God what is not true about Him. Some of the things we are talking about in this teaching, we have already talked about them in the teaching of God, where we were talking about the sovereignty of God, which is a subject matter that is often misinterpreted. Sometimes people say God is sovereign. God is sovereign means He can do anything He wants to do. It does not mean He is doing everything He can do. God could have made the world in such a way that nobody has free will. He could do just about anything He wants to do. But that reality of His sovereignty does not mean He is doing anything that He can do. There is something He is doing Himself. He is not doing everything that He can do. He is doing something specifically and we need to find out. Sovereignty means He can do anything He wants to do. This is where we need to understand God's wisdom and prudence.

If we are told, how do I understand the Old Testament text? You must know that the goal is truth. If God was working out His wisdom and prudence, the root of wisdom, the root of prudence is truth. There's this problem that particularly critical scholars like to do. They'll say these people are just doing apologetics for God, that if you read the text, the authors meant this and that's what they said. That is not discerning God's wisdom and prudence through the text. There are three things I want you to note when you are approaching the Old Testament text. God's wisdom towards redemption is our reading of the Old Testament text to read God's wisdom and prudence in it. Sometimes people read the Old Testament text and say, God supports slavery. God even supports genocide. People will go there and they will read that. And here, Paul is saying that God labored through the conditions in His wisdom and prudence to bring about redemption. There will have been things you will be reading that will look strange. But it is God laboring with His wisdom amidst the situation to fulfill redemption.

You are not meant to have read God supporting slavery there. You are not meant to have read God condoning genocide there. If you were reading with the goal of truth, which is this is God's wisdom playing out here, despite the imperfections I'm seeing. If you are reading with the goal of truth, that it is God's wisdom, things may look weird there, but it is God's wisdom playing out. You won't have been seeing the wrong things there. The most common one when people see issues in scripture, what God points their minds to is the issue of morality. We are using the example of slavery, the example of genocide, even many things in the law that just allow them to kill people. Or sometimes people say even God telling Abraham to go and sacrifice his child. What kind of God is this? If you start talking like that, are you saying God can just tell somebody today to go and kill the Canaanites, the way He said Saul should go and kill the Amalekites? You need to understand the play of His wisdom and prudence at that time.

**15:00** Let's use the example of morality. Morality has five steps in it. We have taught this in the teaching "The Truth of Morality". This means Paul's reading of the Old Testament is that he was reading God's wisdom and prudence. If you want to go by way of critical scholarship to read the Bible, you can't even read it like Jesus read it, let alone Paul. They have a point if we are not careful. When I say we should read it with God's wisdom and prudence, I'm not granting liberty to read it any which way. I'm saying we must read it with the mind of truth. We are reading it in the mind of truth on all levels. The people that were writing, they wanted to say the truth. God who orchestrated them to write wants to reflect the truth. We that are reading it, we must read it to see the truth. Which means that even the people that were writing, sometimes what they were saying was not exactly the truth on that matter, despite their intention to write the truth. They wrote their mind like that and God allowed it. God Himself that orchestrated this still wants to reflect His truth, we must still now read it with truth.

Morality has five things we must know. Number one, there is moral truth. Number two, there is moral intention. Number three, there is moral instruction. Number four, there is moral expression. Number five, there is moral outcome. If there's moral truth, this is how something is. Someone may not fully get moral truth, but have an intention to do the thing that is moral. This is the moral truth that we can see in the world and also in God's word: life is right and death is wrong. Light is right and darkness is wrong. Our moral intention is I want there to be life.

Let me give an example. When God gave Moses the Ten Commandments, it was a reflection of moral truth. He was giving him things that would bring about life. Moses now gave them the 613 laws, which are moral instructions based on his intention to see moral truth fulfilled, to see life. God has told him moral truth: life is right, death is wrong. He gave commandments in that light. With that intention, he gave further instructions, which he is going to claim is the Lord giving because he's giving it based on moral truth. It is not like that to say it is the Lord giving it. It's human beings saying it's the Lord giving it. What is from the Lord clearly is the moral truth. You will see instances where we will say it is the one that now had to speak to them, not the Lord. Yet they will still sometimes talk about those laws and say it is the Lord that said so, because they believe they are giving moral instructions based on moral truth, which is of the Lord.

Moses can give a moral instruction based on the moral intention that there should be life, that if someone is a murderer, kill the person, so that the person is not going to bring about death. The moral truth is life. The moral intention is life. Yet a moral instruction can tell you to kill because of the moral outcome of life. This is where the issue of wisdom and prudence comes in. Based on the wisdom that I have, that what God wants morally is life, I can counsel you to do something like this, so that there will be life. What I'm counseling you can look weird to somebody else if they don't understand. I can counsel people that are in a state of slavery and say, don't do all these things. It's not because what I've said is exactly moral truth at its best expression, but I'm still mitigating with moral truth a whole lot of things that are wrong. If we do not read the Old Testament text as God's wisdom and prudence towards redemption, we will be misreading it. We won't be reading God's intention in the text.

**20:00** When we are reading the Old Testament text, number one, we must have the goal of truth. Number two, we must understand the place of human and natural means in receiving revelation and codifying it, despite divine orchestration amidst it. We must understand the place of human and natural means, that someone can make a mistake in receiving revelation and in writing it, despite God's orchestration that was there. The third thing in reading the Old Testament text is that we must have a proper understanding of literature, language, and history.

For example, Genesis 1:1 to Genesis 1:11 is highly figurative. It's a history that is very figurative. It's not literal like that. That's why you are seeing people living 900 and something years. Scientifically, human beings have never lived 900 and something years. That's why you will read in that account that the world started 6,000 years ago. Scientifically, human beings have been existing far earlier than 6,000 years ago. At least 10,000 years. In some cases, 30,000 years. Some people can even go further and say the humans that the Bible is discussing can be taken as far as 100,000, some 400,000 years before. If you want to include the Neanderthals, there are certain Christian philosophers and theologians that will say the Neanderthals are part of the people in the likeness of God. That account is figurative. We must understand the place of literature, language, and history. This is a figurative writing. We must know when this is a poem. We must know when this is a narrative. We must be able to make such distinctions.

That's the first thing I will tell us about approaching the study of the Old Testament text, which is God's wisdom towards redemption. We must approach it carefully. When we approach the study of God's wisdom towards redemption with this careful background, notice that there is the goal of truth, which shows us that we are doing very strong philosophical theology whenever we are reading the Old Testament text. We must know the rules of the truth. God is light, He can't do darkness. God is life, He can't do death. It just doesn't make any sense. Light cannot be giving darkness. The way in which I can account for God doing darkness must be well defined. That means He has taken His light away. Not that He has brought in darkness Himself. He has taken His life away, which is death. Not that He has killed like that. If the goal is truth, I must be ready to do very strong philosophical theology.

There are a couple of things I want to say here when you are reading the Old Testament text. They are very important for you to know. When we read through the Old Testament text, reading God's wisdom and prudence, reading it through the lenses of truth, we will realize that God has set up the world and the way it works. It is God that even set up how death happens. If you reject life, you will die. That means even when death happens or evil things happen, you can still say God caused it, even where He did not directly initiate it. God set up how the world works at creation. These are the conclusions we reach. God has set up how the world works at creation, and He actively pursues and initiates redemption. Anything that is of life, anything that is of redemption, He is the one that actively does that. Everything within the world can still be attributed to Him even where it is not directly initiated by Him.

**25:00** The two things that we can directly attribute to God is: He has set up how the world works. The second thing we can directly attribute to Him is that He actively pursues and initiates redemption. Despite that, every single thing that happens can still be attributed to Him. He is the one who set up how the world works. Let's say someone jumped down from a very high mountain and killed himself. You can say God killed him. When you say God killed him, you expect that they are talking about direct initiation, that God took direct initiative to kill him. But that clearly is not direct initiative. The guy chose to jump down. But because that's how God set up the world, when someone does this, this is what happens, you can still speak that way and say God killed him. The situation of him jumping down and him dying is what God has set up. This is the first conclusion we are going to reach. If we are reading the Old Testament text seeing God's wisdom and prudence with the lenses of truth. What God actively pursues and initiates is redemption, the things that are of life.

The second conclusion we must reach is man has real free will to take initiative according to how God has set up the world. But even what he does can still be attributed to God. If I'm reading a text and it says, Yahweh said to so and so person, go and do this and that. Under number one, where I was telling us that we must be mindful of three things: the goal of truth, the human and natural means in receiving revelation and writing it despite divine orchestration, and number three, the importance of language, literature, and history. Even when someone receives revelation, I must be aware it's a human being, an imperfect person receiving revelation, writing his revelation, despite the fact that God has chosen this book as the book of truth. I must read it with the lenses of the established truth I can see in His word. He is life, He is light. Some things are clearly established, philosophically so. Some things are not. I must read the narrative carefully in that way.

I've said three things to be mindful of in approaching the text. Two conclusions you are going to reach: God's role in setting up the world as it is, and what He pursues and initiates; man's real free will, which acts in accordance with how God has set up the world, despite the fact that his actions can still be attributed to God. When we are reading the Old Testament text, we must be aware that there are different phases of the historical narrative. The Old Testament is a historical narrative. I will give us the different phases of the historical narrative and I will give us the different explanations to them.

The first part of the historical narrative is the primeval account, or the primodal account. Primeval means the earliest period of humanity. Which is Genesis 1 to Genesis 11\. The literature here is highly figurative. When I'm reading this, I must be aware I'm reading a highly figurative account. It is definitely not literal. We are not supposed to hold it with that literalness. Many times when people have ignored this necessity of reading the wisdom of God through those accounts, reading it as the wisdom of God and His prudence, some people have gotten into a state of unbelief in God because of that. You see them become atheistic or agnostic. There was one guy who felt it was just a matter of morality, that he can't accept the Noah's account and all. He has now gone to add other things, strengthening his conviction against faith in God in Christ. But it was the stumbling block of how he was reading the Bible first. He was saying he was a youth pastor, but how he was reading the Bible was the issue. Whoever asked him to read that account like that?

**30:00** That portion of scripture is mythological history. Even if those individuals are taken as real individuals, they are real individuals that are basically typological, particularly Adam, definitely not the earliest human, who have been typified as earliest humans. The principle that there are certain earliest humans is still being set there, being projected there. The stumbling block some people experience is because they are reading the text in the way you are not even meant to read any text normally. When you are reading any text, you must appreciate the literature. What kind of literature am I dealing with? If they start telling you the story of Oduduwa, Lamurudu for Yoruba mythological history, you can't expect that you are really believing that Oduduwa and Lamurudu were the first set of people. That's mythological history. It is communicating certain truths, but your attention and focus must be on what the truth itself is. Is the document chosen by God reflecting His wisdom and prudence that speaks about His purpose all the way to redemption? Number one is the primeval account.

Number two is the patriarchal account. What the patriarchal account does, Genesis 12 to 50, is that it narrows down the narrative of the whole Bible to those who are specifically elected for the redemption, the account of redemption that is to be told. Ephesians 1:7 and 8 is saying that we have redemption, which He made to abound towards us in all wisdom and prudence. The focus of the biblical account is to talk about this redemption. The first part was just to give you an overview of humanity, leading to the specific pursuit of redemption, showing that redemption has always been the concern of humanity all through the ages. Genesis 1 to 11, whatever history finds out about when human beings have been, it has been passed down by oral tradition that there is a situation in need of redemption we have always had. We are now narrowing the account to the specific flow of redemption. Genesis 12 is about specific election. This issue of moral truth and its dynamics will still be playing out throughout the account. This place of human and natural means of receiving revelation and writing it despite divine orchestration, will still be playing out in the account. Patriarchal accounts, specific election.

Then we have the Exodus account, which is Exodus to Deuteronomy. When we are reading this, we are reading the major redemptive template in scripture. The flood of Noah is a redemptive template, but the Exodus account is the major redemptive template. If you ever want to explain God's plan of redemption, the Exodus account will be your best bet.

The fourth part of history is the conquest account. The place of the conquest account is missions, or the mandate of Jesus, the mission of the church. When God calls out His people, they are to take the world. In this case, it was a specific land, but when He spoke to Abraham, that land was about all the earth. If we are reading any account to understand the mission of the church, what God wants us to do, we'll be reading the conquest account. We are literally supposed to conquer the world. That's why the conquest account was not absolute victory. Even though you will find that in some of their exaggerated words, they will make it sound like absolute victory, later they will still tell you that those people were still there. Anywhere we go and conquer, some people will still not believe. That's the lesson we learn in the conquest account. These ones are in the realm of real historicity. Even though this patriarchal account, Exodus account, conquest account, despite being in the realm of history that is historical, is very likely exaggerated. If you want to have a proper reading of your Bible, you must be aware. I don't think these things are a problem, but it's better believers are aware. Some people want to shy away from it and claim that means you are not a believer. I am, very much so. Of course there were slaves that escaped, the Shasu of YHWH, that escaped. But the manner of the story that they told of their escape is exaggerated. There are accounts and there are debates. I'm a moderate, I think there's probably a deliverance that happened of those people that were slaves. The nature of all the events that followed it, I can't tell. I just don't know. This is the case where I'm agnostic on it, and I'm just prone to accept a general miraculous hand. I'm well open to accepting exaggerations where they are, without it ever affecting my faith in what the Bible is saying, redemption.

**35:00** My general counsel is that if you can, listen to Level 5 Bibliology. If it's on the library, you can look for Bibliology and listen to it, particularly the history and historicity portion. My general counsel for a believer who wants to read the text as God's wisdom, is to be a biblical moderate. You are not there dragging with people the literal fulfillment of every single thing that is there. When you read the account, you will see what is necessary for you to accept. That is reasonable for you to accept. The actual deliverance and redemption. Even if you don't understand the entire means. The actual conquest and dominance on that land.

After the conquest account, we have the kingdom account. What are we meant to read in the kingdom account? We are meant to read how the church functions. This is now how God's people function in their place. Conquest is supposed to be going on at the same time. That's why sometimes in kingdom accounts you are still seeing wars happening. Mission is still going on, and yet we are reading the kingdom, how God's people operate. Conquest will be all the way to Ruth. Kingdom account will be 1st Samuel all the way to 2nd Chronicles. Kingdom account, we are seeing how God's people should operate. What we will be learning in kingdom account is like we are learning about the church.

Let's take it a step further. We see exile accounts. These are times where we see backsliding. Church in need of restoration. Or the world as well in need of restoration. Things have gone wrong again. We need a reestablishment of the kingdom. "Thy kingdom come" is in the hearts of people, which externally dictates the effects seen in our world. That's the exile account.

Then the last thing will be the wisdom books and the prophets. The wisdom books and the prophets will serve as doctrinal or expository materials. Literal teachings and commentaries on the narrative that was happening. This is God's wisdom towards redemption. The account of God's wisdom towards redemption runs through God's plan of redemption across the ages. The mythological history, the elect people, their deliverance or redemption, the conquest or missions, the kingdom or the operation of the church and God's people, their backsliding and need of restoration, and then the wisdom books and prophets, the expository and doctrinal materials. When we are reading all of this, we must read it with the eyes of truth, particularly the truth of morality. It will lead us to certain theological conclusions about the Old Testament books.

**40:00** Number one is that if we read the books properly, we will see a very strong sovereignty language. God will be said to do things that He does not directly initiate but that He can be held responsible for because He is the one that set up the world like that. God will be held to do things that He did not directly initiate but that He can be held accountable for. The state has to charge you. The state is the one that will charge you. The state can still provide someone that will defend you. The state will prosecute the person. If the person has no lawyer, the state will still give the person a defense counsel. We'll see all of this when we get there. This is an issue of people writing according to their own revelation. Are they accurate in that understanding is a different issue. Some people say you are overriding the Bible. We have to be careful here, this gets complicated, where everybody just chooses what they want to do. One critical scholar will say people are just giving authority to the Bible, it doesn't have its own authority, it's because they are the ones choosing to do that. It is not necessarily like that. This is an issue of biblical theology with philosophical theology. Not random philosophical theology, strict philosophical theology. And then historical theology, giving us systematic theology. It's a challenge we face. If people will not be strict with their philosophical theology, people indeed will just be picking and choosing and doing anyhow with the text of scripture. You cannot escape the need of philosophical theology, whether it is strict, faithful philosophical theology to biblical theology is a separate issue.

By the time we get to the New Testament text, their understanding of Satan had clearly been separated from someone that is functioning in service of God. In the Old Testament text period, it was still seen like that. Around the second temple period, intertestamental period, that change had started to happen in their understanding. Was it a change in truth? No, this is where people talk about the nature of progressive revelation. That's why I'm saying you need strict, proper, faithful philosophical theology to biblical theology. You will just strictly look at the data as it was, what was on the mind of those people as at then, which you should still point out. You can't understand anything in the Bible because what was on the mind of many people here is different from what was on the mind of many people there. Yet underneath, what was on their mind is still the same. The way they understood the operations of things differed. What remained true was still true. Their way of seeing it at different junctures was not the same.

One account said the Lord moved David to number Israel. Now we are saying Satan moved him to number Israel. We were told the anger of the Lord was aroused against him. If you have understood the truth of God properly, the anger of the Lord is man caused. God already had what He is angry about. When we now see His anger present, it is that you have done something that has demanded for it. Which means in that demand for God's anger, He has withdrawn, and therefore you are under the influence of death, darkness, and evil, Satan. If God says choose life, you reject life. Life is going to go. You are now under the reign of death and darkness, and it's going to affect you. If David walked in pride, he is sort of acting like I don't need God, he's feeling like a big boy, he's now a king. God is withdrawn, and He is angry about that. He's under the influence now of darkness. He's moved by that. You can say God moved him. You can say Satan moved him. Both are correct, because it's how God has made the world. One is direct initiative, Satan, or the role of darkness, Satan. The other one is the overall responsibility of how He has set up the world, God.

You cannot properly understand the Old Testament text with less struggles than the Old Testament text, particularly in the light of the full understanding that we now have in the person of Jesus and with the apostles. It is required of us that we read the wisdom and the prudence of God through those accounts. We have seen God's wisdom towards redemption. I've told you the way you must approach the text. I've told you certain things you will see about God's sovereignty and man's free will. I've told you the different times in history, and I've shown you the five major theological conclusions. For now, this is a good place at level two to understand the Old Testament text. When you have questions, you already have a framework to work with. You can ask, and we will provide answers. By the time we get to level five, you will have a full grasp of these matters.
